The Project Gutenberg EBook of The New England Historical & Genealogical
Register, Vol 1, No. 3, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The New England Historical & Genealogical Register, Vol 1, No. 3

Author: Various

Editor: William Cogswell

Release Date: December 24, 2015 [EBook #50758]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NEW ENGLAND HISTORICAL REGISTER ***




Produced by Heather Clark, John Campbell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)









  TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE

  Italic text is denoted by _underscores_.

  Bold text is denoted by =equal signs=.

  Superscript letters are denoted by ^, for example y^e and Serv^t.
  A number following the ^ indicates the generation of the family, for
  example Joseph,^3 is in the third generation of the (Parsons) family.

  Obvious typographical errors and punctuation errors have been
  corrected after careful comparison with other occurrences within
  the text and consultation of external sources.

  More detail can be found at the end of the book.




  =VOL. I.      JULY, 1847.      NO. 3.=




  THE

  NEW ENGLAND

  =HISTORICAL & GENEALOGICAL REGISTER:=

  PUBLISHED QUARTERLY,

  UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE

  NEW ENGLAND HISTORIC, GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY.


  REV. WILLIAM COGSWELL, D. D., EDITOR.


  [Illustration]


  BOSTON:
  SAMUEL G. DRAKE, PUBLISHER,
  NO. 56 CORNHILL.
  1847.


  COOLIDGE & WILEY, Printers, 12 Water Street.




  CONTENTS.

                                                                    Page

  Memoir of Governor Endecott,                                       201

  Original Covenant of the First Church in Massachusetts Colony,     224

  Heraldry,                                                          225

  Heraldic Plate,                                                    231

  Ratification of the Federal Constitution by Massachusetts,         232

  Letter of Chief-Justice Sargent,                                   237

  Complete List of the Ministers of Boston,                          240

  Congregational Ministers and Churches in Rockingham County, N. H., 244

  Genealogy of the Wolcott Family,                                   251

  Genealogy of the Minot Family,                                     256

  Genealogy of the Parsons Family,                                   263

  Ancient Bible in the Bradford Family,                              275

  Biographical Notices of Physicians in Rochester, N. H.,            276

  Sketches of Alumni at the different Colleges in New England,       278

  Advice of a Dying Father to his Son,                               284

  Relationship,                                                      285

  Decease of the Fathers of New England,                             286

  New England,                                                       288

  Arrival of Early New England Ministers,                            289

  Genealogies and their Moral,                                       290

  First Settlers of Rhode Island,                                    291

  Marriages and Deaths,                                              292

  Notices of New Publications,                                       293




[Illustration: (Portrait of John Endecott, Governor.)]




NEW ENGLAND

HISTORICAL AND GENEALOGICAL REGISTER.

  VOL. I.      JULY, 1847.      NO. 3.




MEMOIR OF GOVERNOR ENDECOTT.[1]


It is now upwards of two centuries and a quarter since the despotic
sway of the English Sovereigns over the consciences of their
subjects, induced all who entertained different sentiments from those
of the established church, to turn their eyes towards the wilderness
of America, as an asylum from the unnatural persecutions of the
Mother Country.

With this in view, some of the principal men among those who had
already sought a refuge in Holland, commenced treating with the
Virginia Company, and at the same time took measures to ascertain
whether the King would grant them liberty of conscience should they
remove thither. They ultimately effected a satisfactory arrangement
with the Company, but from James they could obtain no public
recognition of religious liberty, but merely a promise, that if
they behaved peaceably he would not molest them on account of their
religious opinions.

On the 6th of September, 1620, a detachment from the Church at
Leyden set sail from Plymouth for the Virginia territory, but owing
to the treachery of the master,[2] they were landed at Cape Cod,
and ultimately at Plymouth, on the 11th day of December following.
Finding themselves without the jurisdiction of the Virginia Company,
they established a distinct government for themselves.

In the year 1624, the success of this plantation was so favorably
represented in the West of England, that the Rev. John White, a
distinguished minister in Dorchester, prevailed upon some merchants
and others to undertake another settlement in New England. Having
provided a common stock, they sent over several persons to begin a
plantation at Cape Ann, where they were joined by some disaffected
individuals from the Plymouth settlement. This project was soon
abandoned as unprofitable, and a portion of the settlers removed
westward within the territory of Naumkeag, which then included
what is now Manchester. By the intercession and great exertions
of Mr. White, the project of a settlement in that quarter was not
altogether relinquished, but a new company was soon afterwards
formed. One of this company, and the principal one to carry its
objects into immediate effect, was the subject of this Memoir. He
was in the _strictest_ sense of the word a _Puritan_,--one of a
sect composed, as an able foreign writer has said, of the "most
remarkable body of men which perhaps the world has ever produced.
They were men whose minds had derived a peculiar character from the
daily contemplation of superior beings and eternal interests. Not
content with acknowledging in general terms an overruling Providence,
they habitually ascribed every event to the will of the Great Being
for whose power nothing was too vast, for whose inspection nothing
was too minute. To know him, to serve him, to enjoy him, was with
them the great end of existence. They rejected with contempt the
ceremonious homage which other sects substituted for the homage of
the soul. On the rich and the eloquent, on nobles and priests, they
looked down with contempt; for they esteemed themselves rich in a
more precious treasure, and eloquent in a more sublime language;
nobles by the right of an earlier creation, and priests by the
imposition of a mightier hand."

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN ENDECOTT, whose name is so intimately associated with the first
settlement of this country, and with whose early history his own is
so closely interwoven, that, in the language of the late Rev. Dr.
Bentley,[3] "above all others he deserved the name of _the_ FATHER OF
NEW ENGLAND," was born in Dorchester, Dorsetshire, England, in the
year 1588. He was a man of good intellectual endowments and mental
culture, and of a fearless and independent spirit, which well fitted
him for the various and trying duties he was destined to perform. Of
his early life, and private and domestic character, little is known;
neither are we much better informed as to his parentage, except
that his family was of respectable standing and moderate fortunes.
He belonged to that class in England called esquires, or gentlemen,
composed mostly at that period of the independent landholders of the
realm. With the exception, therefore, of a few leading incidents,
we are reluctantly obliged to pass over nearly the whole period of
Mr. Endecott's life, previous to his engaging in the enterprise for
the settlement of New England. History is almost silent upon the
subject, and the tradition of the family has been but imperfectly
transmitted and preserved. His letters, the only written productions
which are left us, furnish internal evidence that he was a man of
liberal education and cultivated mind. There are proofs of his
having been, at some period of his life, a surgeon;[4] yet, as he
is always alluded to, in the earliest records of the Massachusetts
Company, by the title of Captain, there can be no doubt whatever
that at some time previous to his emigration to this country, he had
held a commission in the army; and his subsequently passing through
the several military grades to that of Sergeant Major-General of
Massachusetts, justifies this conclusion, while the causes which led
to this change in his profession cannot now be ascertained.

While a resident in London, he married a lady of an influential
family, by the name of Anna Gouer, by whom, it is understood, he
had no children. She was cousin to Matthew Cradock, the Governor
of the Massachusetts Company in England. If tradition be correct,
the circumstances which brought about this connection were similar
to those which are related of John Alden and Miles Standish. Some
needle-work, wrought by this lady, is still preserved in the Museum
of the Salem East India Marine Society.[5] Mr. Endecott was also a
brother-in-law of Roger Ludlow, Assistant and Deputy Governor of
Massachusetts Colony, in the year 1634, and afterwards famous for the
distinguished part he took in the government of Connecticut.

But Mr. Endecott's highest claim to distinction rests upon the fact
that he was an intrepid and successful leader of the Pilgrims, and
the earliest pioneer of the Massachusetts settlement under the
Patent. His name is found enrolled among the very foremost of that
noble band, the fathers and founders of New England--those pious and
devout men, who, firm in the faith of the gospel, and trusting in
God, went fearlessly forward in the daring enterprise, and hewed
their homes and their altars out of the wild forest, where they
could worship "the God of their fathers agreeably to the dictates
of their own consciences." Such was the persecution to which the
Non-conformists in England were at this period subjected, that the
works of nature were the only safe witnesses of their devotions.
Deriving no honor, so far as we know, from illustrious ancestry, Mr.
Endecott was the architect of his own fame, and won the laurels which
encircle his name amid sacrifices, sufferings, and trials, better
suited to adorn an historical romance, than to accompany a plain tale
of real life.

Under the guidance and influence of the Rev. Mr. Skelton, he embraced
the principles of the Puritans; and in the beginning of the year
1628, associated himself with Sir Henry Roswell, Sir John Young,
Simon Whetcomb, John Humphrey, and Thomas Southcoat, in the purchase
of a grant, "by a considerable sum of money," for the settlement
of the Massachusetts Bay, from the Plymouth Council in England.
This grant was subsequently confirmed by Patent from Charles I. Mr.
Endecott was one of the original patentees, and among the first of
that company who emigrated to this country.

Whatever may have been the objects of the first settlers generally
in colonizing New England, there can be no doubt that _his_ was the
establishment and enjoyment of the gospel and its ordinances, as he
supposed, in primitive purity, unmolested. With him it was wholly a
religious enterprise.

He sailed from Weymouth, in the ship Abigail, Henry Gauden, master,
on the 20th of June, 1628, and arrived in safety at Naumkeag, the
place of his destination, on the 6th of September following. The
company consisted of about one hundred planters.

The following extract from "Johnson's Wonder-Working Providence"
will illustrate the estimation in which he was held at this period.
"The much honored John Indicat came over with them, to governe; a
fit instrument to begin this Wildernesse-worke; of courage bold,
undaunted, yet sociable, and of a cheerfull spirit, loving and
austere, applying himselfe to either as occasion served. And now let
no man be offended at the Author's rude Verse, penned of purpose to
keepe in memory the Names of such worthies as Christ made strong for
himselfe, in this unwonted worke of his.


"_John Endicat, twice Governur of the English, inhabiting the
Mattachusets Bay in N. England._

  "Strong valiant John, wilt thou march on, and take up station first,
  Christ cal'd hath thee, his Souldier be, and faile not of thy trust;
  Wilderness wants Christs grace supplants, then plant his Churches pure,
  With Tongues gifted, and graces led, help thou to his procure;
  Undaunted thou wilt not allow, Malignant men to wast:
  Christs Vineyard heere, whose grace should cheer his well-beloved's tast.
  Then honored be, thy Christ hath thee their General promoted:
  To shew their love in place above, his people have thee voted.
  Yet must thou fall, to grave with all the Nobles of the Earth.
  Thou rotting worme to dust must turn, and worse but for new birth."

To this company, under Endecott, belongs the honor of having
formed the first permanent and legally recognized settlement of
the Massachusetts Colony. We do not say that they were the _first_
white men who ever trod the soil; for we know when Endecott landed
on these shores, he found here a few fishermen and others, the
remnant of a planting, trading, and fishing establishment, previously
commenced at Cape Ann, under the auspices of some gentlemen belonging
to Dorchester, his native place, but soon abandoned for want of
success. Their leader, the Rev. John Lyford, had already emigrated
to Virginia, and those of that company who removed their effects
to Salem, consisted at that time of some five or six persons, most
of whom were seceders from the settlement at Plymouth. They were,
however, only sojourners, disaffected with the place, and requiring
all the interest and entreaties of the Rev. John White, a noted
minister in Dorchester, to prevent them from forsaking it altogether,
and following Mr. Lyford to Virginia.[6] But higher motives and
deeper purposes fired the souls and stimulated the hearts of Mr.
Endecott and his friends to commence a settlement, and to form
new homes for themselves and their posterity in this wilderness,
before which the mere considerations of traffic and gain sink into
comparative insignificance. It was the love of religion implanted
deep in the heart, that gave impulse and permanency to the settlement
at Naumkeag, and the Massachusetts Colony generally; and the
commencement of this era was the arrival of Endecott with the first
detachment of those holy and devout men who valued earthly pursuits
only so far as they were consistent with religion. It was also at
this period that a sort of definite reality was imparted to this
region. Previously to this it had been viewed as a sort of _terra
incognita_, situated somewhere in the wilderness of America. But
the arrival of the Pilgrims at this time dispelled the uncertainty
in which it had before been wrapped, and at the same time threw
around it the warmest sympathies and most earnest solicitude of
large numbers who had now become deeply interested in its welfare.
We, therefore, consider the landing of Endecott at this place, as
emphatically the commencement of its permanent settlement, as an
asylum for the persecuted and oppressed of the Mother Country. All
previous visitors were comparatively adventurers, with motives and
purposes widely different from those of that little band who first
rested upon this spot on the 6th of September, 1628. On that day, so
to speak, was breathed into the settlement of Naumkeag the breath of
life, and it became as it were endued with a living soul, folding
within its embrace the dearest interests and most cherished rights of
humanity, unrivalled in the interest she will ever excite as the most
ancient town in the Massachusetts Patent.

On Mr. Endecott's arrival, he made known to the planters who preceded
him, that he and his associate patentees had purchased all the
property and privileges of the Dorchester partners, both here and at
Cape Ann. He shortly after removed from the latter place, for his own
private residence, the frame house, which a few years before had been
erected there by the Dorchester Company. It was a tasteful edifice,
of two stories high, and of the prevailing order of architecture at
that period, called the Elisabethean, which was but of slight remove
from the Gothic. Some of its hard oak frame may still be found in
the building at the corner of Washington and Church streets, Salem,
commonly known at this day as the "Endicott House."

The alteration which now took place in the affairs of the infant
colony did not meet with favor from the first planters, and for a
while prevented perfect harmony from prevailing in the settlement.
"One of the subjects of discord was the propriety of raising tobacco,
Mr. Endecott and his council believing such a production, except for
medicinal purposes, injurious both to health and morals." Besides
this, they probably viewed with no favorable eye the agreement
in sentiment between Mr. Endecott and the Plymouth Church as to
the propriety of abolishing the ritual forms of worship of the
Church of England; for an adherence to which they had already been
obliged to leave the Plymouth settlement. Mr. Endecott represented
these difficulties to the home government; and in answer to his
communication they say, "That it may appear as well to all the worlde
as to the old planters themselves, that we seke not to make them
slaves, as it seems by your letter some of them think themselves to
be become by means of our patent, they are allowed to be partakers
with us in all the privileges we have with so much labor and
intercession obtained from the King; to be incorporated into the
society, and enjoy not only those lands which formerly they have
manured, but such a further proportion as the civil authorities think
best." They were also allowed the _exclusive_ privilege of raising
their favorite weed--tobacco.

The Company's Court in London, actuated by that true sense of
justice which ever marked its deliberations, were determined not to
trespass on any of the rights of the aborigines; and to this purpose
in their first two communications to Mr. Endecott, they desired
him to take especial care, "that no wrong or injury be offered by
any of our people to the natives there," and to satisfy every just
claim which might be made by them to the territory of Naumkeag and
the plantation generally. To this record the sons of the Pilgrims
have ever turned with peculiar pride and exultation. And, says
Felt, "From his well-known promptitude and high sense of equity,
there can be no doubt that Mr. Endecott fulfilled every iota of
such instructions." In his first letters to the home government, he
suggested various things to advance the interests of the Colony; such
as the manufacture of salt, cultivation of vineyards, sending over
fruit-stones and kernels, grain for seed, wheat, barley, and rye;
also certain domesticated animals; all of which were shortly after
transported to this country.

The answer to this letter bears the date of April 19, 1629, wherein
they inform him, that the Company "are much enlarged since his
departure out of England," and for strengthening their grant from
the Council at Plymouth, they had obtained a confirmation of it from
his Majesty by his Letters Patent, under the broad seal of England;
incorporating them into a body politic, with ample powers to govern
and rule all his Majesty's subjects that reside within the limits of
their plantation; and that, in prosecution of the good opinion they
have always entertained of him, they have confirmed him Governor
of the Colony. No adventitious circumstances of fortune or birth
aided him in his appointment to this, even then responsible office;
for although the Colony was at this time few in numbers and feeble
in effort, yet in its success were involved the most momentous
interests, and every thing depended upon the right impulse and
direction being given to its affairs. In the words of the Record,
"having taken into due consideration the _meritt_, _worth_, and _good
desert_ of Captain John Endecott, and others lately gone over from
hence, with purpose to resyde and continue there, wee have with full
consent and authoritie of this Court, and ereccon of hands, chosen
and elected the said Captain John Endecott to the place of present
Governour of said Plantation." They further speak of the confidence
they repose in him, in thus committing the affairs of the Colony into
his hands. Gov. Cradock also compliments him upon his motives and
conduct; and the Company inform him, that they are disappointed of
the provisions ordered to be sent for himself and Mrs. Endecott, but
(God willing,) they purpose to send them by the next vessel. It is
also believed that at this time Mr. Endecott ordered the fruit-trees,
which afterwards constituted his orchard upon the farm granted him in
1632, of which one venerable patriarch, the celebrated old pear-tree,
yet remains, having withstood the "peltings of pitiless storms" for
upwards of two hundred winters, and still dropping down its rich
fruit into the bosoms of his distant descendants.

In a second letter, dated the 28th of May following, the Company
remark: "Wee have sithence our last, and according as we there
advised, at a _full_ and _ample_ Court assembled _elected_ and
_established_ you, Captain John Endecott, to the place of present
Governour of our Plantation there, as also some others to be of the
Council with you, as more particularly you will perceive by an Act of
Court herewith sent, confirmed by us at a General Court and sealed
with our common seal."

The model of the Government established by this "Act of Court,"
consisted of a Governor, and twelve persons as a Council, styled "THE
GOVERNOUR AND COUNCIL OF LONDON'S PLANTATION IN THE MATTACHUSETTS
BAY IN NEW ENGLAND." They were to elect a Deputy-Governor, for
the time being, from among their number; were authorized also to
choose a Secretary and other needful officers. They were empowered
to fill vacancies in their body, occasioned by death or otherwise.
The Governor, or in his absence the Deputy, might call Courts at
pleasure, and they had power to establish any laws not at variance
with those of England; "to administer justice upon malefactors, and
inflict condign punishment upon all offenders." To make an act valid,
the Governor or his Deputy was always to vote with the majority. A
form of oath was sent over at this time to be administered to Mr.
Endecott as Governor, and one also for the other officers of the
government. He took the oath and was inducted into office. Here,
then, we conceive, is direct and incontrovertible testimony that
Endecott was appointed the _first_ Governor of Massachusetts under
its Colonial Charter from the King. It is so stated by Joselyn,
Hutchinson, and Prince. He received the Charter, and the documentary
evidence of his constitutional authority as Governor, both at the
same time. To Mr. Endecott was given, to act under it, all the powers
which his immediate successors ever exercised. They were conferred
upon him too, by the same body who subsequently elected Mr. Winthrop
to that office. The abolishment of the board of control in England,
and the transfer of "the government of the plantation to those that
shall inhabit there," and instead of choosing the Colonial Governors
in Old England by members of the Company there, to choose them by
members of the same Company who were in New England, could not weaken
the validity of his claim to be considered the _first_ Governor of
the Massachusetts Colony.

It was well for Mr. Endecott that he possessed an ardent and sanguine
temperament, which nothing could daunt, otherwise the innumerable
discouraging circumstances which met him in this, his new abode, in
every form, amid sickness, death, and privations of every kind, well
suited to appal the stoutest hearts, would no doubt have wrought
their effects upon him, to the prejudice of the whole plantation.
But such was the energy and firmness of his character, aided, no
doubt, by a religious enthusiasm, which induced the belief that it
was the purpose of God to give them the land of the heathen as an
inheritance, that neither his faith nor confidence in the ultimate
success of the undertaking ever for a moment forsook him. In every
crisis, this little band looked to him, as the weather-beaten and
tempest-tossed mariner looks to his commander, next to God, for
encouragement and support; and they did not look in vain. Such was
the great mortality among them, during the first winter after their
arrival, arising from exposure to the rigors of an untried climate,
and their being badly fed and badly lodged, that there were scarcely
found in the settlement well persons enough to nurse and console
the sick. To enhance their distress, they were destitute of any
regular medical assistance. In this painful dilemma a messenger
was despatched by Mr. Endecott to Gov. Bradford, of the Plymouth
settlement, to procure the necessary aid; and Doctor Samuel Fuller,
the physician, who was a prominent member and deacon of the Plymouth
Church, was sent among them. During his visit, Mr. Endecott was
called by Divine Providence to suffer one of the heaviest of earthly
afflictions, in the death of his wife, the partner of all his
sorrows, who had forsaken home, kindred, and the sympathy of friends,
and consented to share with him the cares and privations incident to
a new settlement. Surrounded by savages, and from the circumstances
of the case, placed in a great degree beyond the pale of civilized
society, her sympathy and counsel must necessarily have been very
dear to him. She must have entwined herself about his affections, as
the tender ivy winds itself round the lordly oak. Her slender and
delicate frame was not proof against the rigors of a New England
climate. Born and nurtured in the midst of luxury and ease, she could
not withstand the privations and hardships of her new home, and she
fell a victim to her self-sacrificing disposition. Painful indeed
must have been the parting, and severe the trial to Mr. Endecott.
Under the influence of the feelings which this affliction produced,
he wrote the following letter to Gov. Bradford:--

  "RIGHT WORSHIPFULLE SIR,--

  "It is a thing not usual that servants of one Master, and of
  the same household, should be strangers. I assure you I desire
  it not; Nay, to speak more plainly, I _cannot_ be so to _you_.
  God's people are all marked with one and the same mark, and have
  for the main one and the same heart, guided by one and the same
  spirit of truth; and where this is there can be no discord,
  nay, here must needs be a sweet harmony; and the same request
  with you, I make unto the Lord, that we as Christian brethren
  be united by an heavenly and unfeigned love, binding all our
  hearts and forces in furthering a work beyond our strength with
  reverence and fear, fastening our eyes always on Him that is only
  able to direct and prosper all our ways. I acknowledge myself
  much bound to you, for your kind love and care in sending Mr.
  Fuller amongst us, and rejoice much that I am by him satisfied,
  touching your judgment of the outward form of God's worship:
  It is as far as I can gather no other than is warranted by the
  evidence of truth, and the same which I have professed and
  maintained ever since the Lord in mercy revealed himself unto
  mee, being far from the common report that hath been spread of
  you in that particular; but God's people must not look for less
  here below, and it is a great mercy of God that he strengtheneth
  them to go through it. I shall not need at this time to enlarge
  unto you for (God willing) I propose to see your face shortly; in
  the mean tyme, I humbly take my leave of you, committing you to
  the Lord's blessing and protection, and rest.

  Your assured loving friend,
  JO: ENDECOTT.

  Naumkeag, May 11, 1629."

The foregoing epistle is alike honorable to the head and heart of
Mr. Endecott. Humble, devout, and chastened feelings pervade it
throughout. It speaks a mind sensibly alive to religious impressions.
The sentiments here expressed cannot fail to find a response in the
hearts of all reflecting men, in this and succeeding generations.
The magnitude of the undertaking in which they were engaged, the
necessity of union in their efforts, and the impossibility of success
without direct divine assistance, are here represented in language
appropriate and devout.

Whether Mr. Endecott carried into execution his design intimated in
this letter, of making Gov. Bradford a visit "shortly," is uncertain.
On the 27th of May, 1629, in a communication to the authorities at
home, he complained that some persons in his jurisdiction disregarded
the law of 1622, for the regulation of trade with the Indians,
and "desiring the Company would take the same into their serious
consideration, and to use some speedy means here for reformation
thereof." A petition was in consequence presented to the King, who
in compliance therewith issued a new proclamation, forbidding such
disorderly trading. These steps were no doubt taken in reference
to the associates of one Thomas Morton, whose residence at Mount
Wollaston, or Merry Mount, now Quincy, he visited shortly after his
arrival in this country. This man and his associates had alarmed
all the well-disposed settlers, from Piscataqua to Plymouth, by
selling arms and ammunition to the Indians, indulging themselves
in dissipation, and otherwise endangering the peace and welfare
of New England. The object of Mr. Endecott's visit was to rectify
abuses among the remaining confederates, Morton himself having been
already apprehended, and sent home to England for trial. He went
there, we are told, in the "purefying spirit of authority," and
caused their May-pole to be cut down, to which they had been in the
habit of affixing pieces of satirical composition against those who
opposed their wishes and practices, and "rebuked the inhabitants
for their profaneness, and admonished them to look to it that they
walked better." He also changed the name of the place, and called
it Mount Dagon. The precise period of this visit is not known, and
it is not improbable that Mr. Endecott extended his journey at the
time to Plymouth Colony. However this may be, a warm friendship soon
grew up between Gov. Bradford and himself, which continued without
interruption for the remainder of their lives.

As yet no steps had been taken in the Colony towards the
establishment of a reformed Church for propagating the gospel, which
they professed above all to be their aim in settling this Plantation.
June 30th, 1629, the Rev. Francis Higginson arrived at Naumkeag, and
the Rev. Mr. Skelton, the early friend and spiritual father of Mr.
Endecott, arrived about the same time. They had been sent over by
the home government. Mr. Higginson thus speaks of his reception by
Mr. Endecott: "The next morning (30th) the Governor came aboard to
our ship, and bade us kindly welcome, and invited mee and my wiffe
to come on shore and take our lodgings at his house; which we did
accordingly." The settlement, we are told, then consisted of "about
half a score of houses, with a fair house, newly built, for the
Governor. We found also abundance of corne planted by them, very good
and well liking. Our Governor hath a store of green pease growing in
his garden, as good as ever I eat in England. * * * * Our Governor
hath already planted a vineyard, with great hopes of increase;
also mulberries, plums, raspberries, currants, chesnuts, filberts,
walnuts, small nuts, hurtleberries, and haws of white thorn, near as
good as our cherries in England--they grow in plenty here."

Shortly after the arrival of Mr. Higginson and Mr. Skelton, the
necessary measures were taken preparatory to the settlement of a
religious congregation in accordance with the views of the Puritans.
In this they were aided by Mr. Endecott, and the most intelligent
of the colonists. Having first concluded a satisfactory form of
church government and discipline, which was submitted to Mr. Endecott
for approval, the 6th of August, 1629, just eleven months after
his arrival, was the time selected for this "little band of devout
Pilgrims to enter into solemn covenant[7] with God and one another,
and also for the ordaining of their ministers." By Mr. Endecott's
order, a solemn day of "humiliation" had been held on the 20th of
July preceding, for the choice of pastor and teacher. An important
step was about to be taken--a new priesthood was about to be
established--all allegiance to, or alliance with, any other church
on earth was about to be dissolved! It was a subject of momentous
concern with the Colonists, and called into exercise all their moral
heroism and spiritual courage. Mr. Bradford, the Governor of the
Plymouth Colony, came here by sea, and arrived just in season to
give the right hand of fellowship. Of all that little band, gathered
together on this occasion, none felt a deeper interest, or took a
more responsible part, than the subject of this Memoir.[8]

We now approach an important event in the history of the Colony--the
removal of its entire government to New England. Gov. Cradock, with
whom the idea appears to have originated, acquainted the Proprietors,
at a meeting of the Court, July 28, 1629, that, for the purpose
of advancing the interests of the Plantation, and inducing and
encouraging persons of worth and quality to transport themselves
and their families thither, as well as for other weighty reasons,
it was proposed to transfer the entire government to this country,
and continue it no longer in subjection to the Company in England.
Soon after this communication, an agreement to that effect was drawn
up at Cambridge, and among those who signed it was their future
governor, John Winthrop. It was one of the stipulations that they
should settle their affairs so as to be ready for the voyage hither
by the first of March. This appears to have been the first connection
Mr. Winthrop had with the settlement of this soil. On the 29th of
August following, at a meeting of the Court of Proprietors, in
London, this change in the government was decided upon. On the 16th
of October, at another meeting of the Court, it was conceived "fitt
that Capt. Endecott continue the government there, unless just cause
to the contrarie." But on the 20th of the same month, Gov. Cradock
informed the Proprietors that in accordance with the alteration of
the government now about to take place, it was necessary to elect a
new Governor, Deputy, and Assistants; when John Winthrop was put in
nomination, and unanimously chosen Governor. In like manner, John
Humphrey was chosen "Deputy-Governor," and Sir Richard Saltonstall,
Matthew Cradock, John Endecott, with fifteen others, were chosen a
board of "Assistants."

On the 12th of June, 1630, the ship Arbella, Capt. Milburne, having
on board Gov. Winthrop and company, and a duplicate Charter of the
Colony, of the same tenor and form as Gov. Endecott's, arrived at
Naumkeag, having sailed from Cowes March 29. Mr. Endecott, who had
already been apprized that he was shortly to be superseded in the
Governorship of the Plantation, repaired on board to welcome the new
Governor, and offer him and his friends the hospitalities of his
house. Among the distinguished personages were Isaac Johnson and his
wife, the Lady Arbella, daughter of the Earl of Lincoln. Speaking
of Mr. Endecott's visit, Gov. Winthrop says, "Wee that were of the
Assistants and some other gentlemen and some of the women, returned
with him to Nahumkeck, where we supped on good venison pastry
and good beer." At the time of the arrival of the new Governor,
wholesome and salutary laws for the government of the Colony had
been instituted by Endecott, under the authority given him by the
Charter, and the settlement had already assumed the condition of a
well-organized and regulated body politic. A church, with faithful
ministers, which they professed to value above all temporal interests
and earthly grandeur, had also been established, and the wheels
of government were moving on harmoniously, upon a safe and sure
foundation. Under this state of things, Endecott now surrendered the
civil power into the hands of Gov. Winthrop, and took upon himself
the more humble appointment of one of the Assistants. Yet "the
principles of Winthrop's administration," says the Annalist of Salem,
"were like those which had directed the course of his predecessor.
The commencement of legislation, which was to have an important part
in promoting social freedom, that has spread and is spreading in the
world, _began_ at Naumkeag, under Endecott, and was _continued_ by
his worthy successor."

Soon after the arrival of Gov. Winthrop, the new settlers began to
be dissatisfied with Salem, as the capital of the Colony. It did not
combine, in their opinion, sufficient advantages of location, soil,
and natural means of defence. A party, therefore, was sent to explore
the country westward, to discover, if possible, some more suitable
situation. It had been the darling object with Endecott to make
Salem the seat of government; he, however, bowed in submission, and
continued his efforts to advance the common weal.

On the 18th of August, 1630, Gov. Endecott entered into a new
matrimonial alliance with Elisabeth Gibson of Cambridge, England.
This lady probably came over in the ship with Gov. Winthrop, and
the marriage ceremony was performed by him and the Rev. Mr. Wilson,
afterwards pastor of the first church in Boston. This connection
appears to have been a happy one, although there was a much greater
disparity in their ages than prudence and judgment would seem to
allow--the difference being about twenty-six years.

Such was his ardent and growing attachment to the place of his
adoption, that when it was decided in December, 1630, to fortify
Newton, now Cambridge, for the seat of government, and to build
houses, and move their military stores to that place next spring, he
could not be prevailed upon to quit his accustomed residence. All the
members, except himself and Mr. Sharp, who was about returning to
England, agreed to do so; but Mr. Endecott excused himself upon the
ground that he had so formed his connections in Salem, that it would
be attended with great inconvenience.

On the 3rd of July, 1632, the Court of Assistants granted Mr.
Endecott three hundred acres of land, called by the Indians in
English, "Birchwood," afterwards known as his "Orchard Farm." It was
situated between two and three miles in a northerly direction from
the main settlement at Salem, upon a tongue of land bounded on the
north, south, and east by rivers, or more properly inlets of the
sea, and on the west by the main land. Even at that early period, it
was one of the most desirable situations in that vicinity. Though at
some distance from the place which was afterwards selected for the
seat of the government, and where the Court House was erected, yet
he was in the centre of the population, being by land nearer to the
shores than he was to the cultivated farms around him. It was many
years after he established himself at this beautiful place, so near
all the streams which passed through the adjacent country, before any
incorporation separated Salem from the Merrimack. For twenty years
Salem bounded on Andover. The spot then was the best he could have
chosen. On a commanding eminence, which overlooked the country for
some distance around, and about one eighth of a mile from one of the
inlets, he built his house, and commenced in earnest the cultivation
of his farm. Although the ploughshare has frequently passed over it,
yet part of the cellar of this house is plainly discernible at the
present day. It is a romantic situation, and denotes him to have
been a man of much discrimination and taste in matters of this kind.
On his farm he lived in a sort of feudal style, surrounded by his
servants.

In front of his mansion house, and immediately upon the southern
slope of a gentle declivity, he planted his far-famed orchard, which
gave the name to his farm. The tradition that the Governor always
pointed out his dial, which bears the date of 1630, as denoting the
age of his orchard, seems to indicate that the trees were removed
hither from his town residence. Here, too, it is said, he introduced,
for medicinal purposes, as well as ornament to his garden, the
"white-weed," which has since become so detrimental to the hay-fields
of our farmers.

His usual mode of transporting himself and family to and from this
place, was at first by water, and he was as often visited by his
friends in this way, as in any other. The inlet before the mansion
house had nothing to interrupt it--the passage was open to the bay,
and at that early period must have been delightfully romantic. The
shores on either side thickly clothed with wood, whose dark images
were reflected in the still waters beneath them, were picturesque
in the extreme. The bold jutting headlands, on some parts of the
passage, lent a sublimity to the prospect, which was continually
varying by the winding and circuitous course of the stream.[9] There
was nothing to break the stillness, or disturb the quiet which
reigned around, save the dashings of their own little boat amid
the waters, or the heavy plunge of some lordly sea-bird, in his
gyratory wanderings in pursuit of prey. The smoke from the humble
and solitary wigwams of the Indians, thinly scattered along the
margin of the waters, with an occasional glimpse at their tawny
inhabitants, as they stealthily watched the passing boat from their
leafy hiding-places, or listlessly reclined under the shadow of some
wide-spreading oak, heightened the effect, and diversified the scene.
Within the last half-century, the ruins of some of these wigwams
might have been seen,[10] and could not have failed to excite most
melancholy reflections respecting the wretched fate of these natural
lords of the soil, throughout our vast country.

August 2, 1634, Mr. Endecott was called to mourn the death of his
early and particular friend, the Rev. Mr. Skelton, who had become
endeared to him as his spiritual guide, in first opening to his view
the way of truth while in England, and who had followed him to this
country to counsel and direct him in paths of piety and happiness.
This event must have been to him a severe affliction.

About this time a Military Board of Commissioners, with almost
unlimited powers, was established by the General Court, and Mr.
Endecott was appointed one of its members.

On the 18th of September, this same year, the Colony was thrown
into consternation, and alarmed for its liberties, by the news from
England, that a commission had been granted to two Archbishops,
and ten others of the Council, conferring on them the authority to
regulate the Plantations of New England; to establish and maintain
the Episcopal Church in this country; to recall its Charter; remove
its Governors; make its laws; hear and decide its legal cases; and
appoint its punishments, even death itself.[11] Intelligence was also
received at the same time, that a new Governor was being secretly
conveyed to Massachusetts, with orders which, if executed, would
prostrate all its civil and ecclesiastical rights. Gov. Cradock had
already informed them that the King's Council had demanded their
Charter. Such was the universal anxiety this news awakened, that the
idea of resistance appears immediately to have possessed the minds of
the inhabitants,[12] and the fortifications were hastened forward,
and an assessment laid of an additional rate of five hundred pounds
for defence. These tidings were received with indignant feelings
by Mr. Endecott. He saw by this step that all their dear-bought
privileges, purchased at such immense sacrifices, which none could
better appreciate than himself, were about to be violently, as with
a ruthless despotism, wrested from them. His independent spirit
could not quietly brook such high-handed infringements upon their
chartered rights, and he resolved in all the affairs of the Colony,
in which he had any share or influence, to pursue that course which
he deemed most for her interests, whether it led him over plains or
mountains, through flowers or thorns. There was exhibited in his
actions, on all occasions, a fortitude, which shows him formed for
great emergencies. Probably under the influence of feelings produced
by this intelligence, and excited by that ardent zeal which marked
his character through life, he shortly after cut the red cross from
the King's colors, deeming it a relic of Popish idolatry. This bold
and daring act was considered an insult, as well to the established
Church of England, as to the King himself; and the Colony dared not
refrain from taking cognizance of it, lest it should call down upon
their heads the vengeance of the whole British hierarchy. There
is ample evidence in the records of the Colony, that most of the
principal men, including Governor Winthrop,[13] agreed with him
on this subject, in sentiment and feeling. "The only difference
between him and others was, he manifested his opinions by his acts,
while they, with more prudence and safety, retained theirs in
secret." Had it not been for fear of the consequences, instead of
being censured, his conduct would have been openly applauded. His
boldness of action was made known in England, and looked upon there
in the light of rebellion. It was the first blow struck in defiance
of royal authority, and would no doubt have cost Mr. Endecott his
life, had it not been for those troubles which were then beginning
to gather thickly, like a tempest, about the devoted head of the
unfortunate Charles I., and which eventually burst upon it with a
fury which nothing could resist, involving in its course the ruin
of his government, and the destruction of his own life. The sword,
with which this rebellious act is said to have been performed by
Mr. Endecott, has been preserved, and is now in possession of one
of the family, to whom it has descended in direct line, by right of
primogeniture. It is a plain, unornamented rapier, emblematical of
the Puritan simplicity of our Forefathers.

While these events were passing in this country, the Puritans
in England were experiencing the most unmitigated persecution,
at the hand of Archbishop Laud and his confederates. As their
numbers increased, the various modes of punishment were multiplied;
exorbitant fines were imposed; the pillory witnessed bloody scenes
of human agony and mutilation; the scaffold and dungeon had their
victims; the lash, the shears, and the glowing iron were most cruelly
applied to individuals of this proscribed sect.[14] But the faith of
the Puritans rose superior to oppression, and could not be overcome.
The most bloody persecution served only to add new converts to their
cause.

In 1636, Mr. Endecott was appointed an Assistant, and was also
sent on an expedition against the Indians on Block Island and in
the Pequot country, he acting as General of all the forces in the
detachment. During this year his views relative to the cross in the
King's colors triumphed over all considerations, and the Military
Commissioners ordered it to be left out. On the ensigns at Castle
Island, in Boston harbor, they substituted the King's arms for the
cross.

During the year 1641, Mr. Endecott was chosen Deputy-Governor,
and was continued in office for the two succeeding years. He was
also appointed one of a committee to dispose of all lands or other
property belonging to the company at Cape Ann; and was commissioned
by the Court, in conjunction with two others, Mr. Downing, the
brother-in-law of Gov. Winthrop, and Mr. Hathorne, to procure the
transcription of nineteen copies of the laws, liberties, and forms of
oaths, and to subscribe them with their own hands, the Court having
decreed that no copies should be considered authentic which were
without their signatures.

In 1642, he was chosen one of the Corporation of Harvard College.

Passing over some minor things in the life of Governor Endecott,
we arrive at the year 1644, when his increasing influence and
popularity ensured his election as Governor, and Mr. Winthrop was
chosen Deputy-Governor. The claim of Salem to be made the seat of
government, was now again revived, and it would be fair to infer from
his well-known attachment to the place, that the project met with
his hearty coöperation. But the effort was not successful, and Boston
still continued to be the capital. The Governor's salary was one
hundred pounds.

During this year of his administration, improvements in the mode
of transacting business in the Legislature were introduced. The
Magistrates and Deputies, for the first time, now held their sessions
apart, and it required the concurrence of both bodies, to make an act
valid. The office of a speaker to the Deputies was also this year
ordained, and filled by an Essex man, Mr. William Hathorne.

The conflicting claims of D'Aulney and La Tour, two Frenchmen at
Acadia, which had produced considerable excitement, were finally
settled during this year, by the government of France supporting
the claim of D'Aulney. His deputy came to Boston, and concluded a
treaty with Gov. Endecott, which was subsequently ratified by the
Commissioners of the United Colonies of New England.

The year following, (1645) Mr. Endecott was succeeded as Governor by
Mr. Dudley. Other offices of honor and trust, however, awaited him.
He was this year appointed Sergeant Major-General of Massachusetts,
the highest military office in the Colony. He had previously held
a commission of Colonel in the first regiment formed in Salem,
Saugus, Ipswich, and Newbury, in 1636, when John Winthrop, Jr., son
of the Governor, was his Lieutenant-Colonel. He was also elected an
Assistant, and one of the United Commissioners.

In 1648, he was continued an Assistant, Sergeant Major-General, and
Commissioner for the Province.

Upon the death of Governor Winthrop, which took place on the 26th
of March, 1649, at the age of 61, Mr. Endecott was again chosen
Governor, to which office he was annually elected until the time of
his death, with the exception of the years 1650 and 1654, when he
held that of Deputy-Governor. This was an eventful period in the
history of the Colony, as well as of the Mother Country. The violent
death of Charles I., the usurpation of Cromwell, and the restoration
of the Stuart family, took place while he was at the head of public
affairs. The difficulties and perplexities of his situation during
this period were very great. But all his public acts were marked
with a moderation and wisdom which do honor to him as an experienced
statesman. Had he possessed less integrity or firmness, had his mind
been at all vacillating, the consequences might have been affectingly
disastrous to the best interests of the Colony.

In the year 1652, under his administration, a mint was established in
the Colony, for coining shillings, six-pences, and three-pences. No
other of the American Colonies, it is believed, ever presumed to coin
metal into money. Though unlawful, it was passed over by Cromwell and
the Parliament, and continued after the Restoration, for more than
twenty years.

About the year 1655, Gov. Endecott removed from Salem to Boston, upon
the request of the General Court that he would do so, "if his own
necessary occasions would permit." Although the reasonableness of
this request must have been apparent to him, the step could not have
been taken without strong feelings of repugnance. It must have been a
severe struggle for him to have separated himself from the place of
his adoption, towards which he had ever felt and exhibited the most
ardent attachment. His residence in Boston was on the beautiful lot
lately owned and occupied by Gardner Green, now Pemberton Square.[15]

Governor Endecott had now (1657) entered upon his seventieth year,
with a shattered constitution, and health seriously impaired, as we
learn by the following letter to Mr. John Leverett, the Colonial
Agent in England.

  SIR,

  I cannot write unto you by a more faithful friend[16] than I
  have done, who is able at large, to relate to you how things in
  general stand here. And that doth save mee some labour which
  at this tyme is a favor to mee. For in the extremity of heate
  and after a long sickness, I am very faint; not fitt to doe
  any thing, yet I cannot but by these heartilie salute you in
  the Lord, giving you many thanks for what you sent me. For all
  good newes is welcome to us as you know full well. Yet I cannot
  for the present answer your expectations touching Road Island
  and Clarke and Holmes, but I have acquainted the rest of the
  Magistrates with your letter, who were already to gather up
  sufficient testimonie to prove what you spoke to the Protector,
  and enough to satisfy (we doubt not) your opponent, if he be a
  lover of truth. Only we would have the General Court act with us
  therein, which will not meet till September next, when I hope I
  shall procure a full answer to your former and last letters.

  What the end is of that point of State to make the Protector
  King, I cannot fathom it; unless their proffering and his
  deniall thereof ingratiate him the more in the hearts of the
  people. The Lord in mercie guide all to his glory, and the good
  of those commonwealths over whom he hath sett him. If there
  be any opportunitie I pray you write mee a word about it, and
  other occurrences that may fall out. I cannot be sufficientlie
  thankefulle for what you wrote me last. Great motions there are
  in the world which the Lord direct and turn to his glorie, the
  overthrow of his enemies and the peace and welfare of his own
  people. Which is the prayer of Sir,

  Your verie loveing friend and servant,
  JO: ENDECOTT.

  Boston, the 29th 4th mo., (June,) 1657.

During the principal part of Gov. Endecott's administration, and
particularly from 1655 to 1660, the Colony, "under his prudent and
equal government," made rapid progress in all things necessary to
its respectability and importance. Its population and wealth rapidly
increased; its trade flourished; and its foreign intercourse became
every day more widely extended. Free admission was allowed to vessels
of all nations, and the importations of all commodities was subject
to no incumbrance or restraint. The Colony took no notice of any
act respecting navigation, or other laws made in England for the
regulation of trade. They were never recognized as in force here,
unless required by their own legislature.

In 1658, the Court granted Gov. Endecott, "for his great service,
the fourth part of Block Island." At this time he was also elected
President of the body of Colonial Commissioners. He now held the
double office of Governor of Massachusetts and President of the
United Colonies.

His conduct towards the aborigines, that much abused and injured
people, was always marked with forbearance, lenity, and mildness. To
his eldest son John, the Indians in 1660 gave a tract of land, which
grant he applied to the Court to confirm. The Court declined taking
such power on itself; but at the same time, however, it passed the
highly complimentary resolve:

The Court, "considering the many kindnesses which were shown the
Indians by our honored Governor in the infancy of these Plantations,
for pacifying the Indians, tending to the common good of the
Planters; and in consideration of which the Indians were moved to
such a gratuity unto his son, do judge meet to give the petitioner
four hundred acres of land."

Though Governor Endecott removed from Salem to Boston in 1655, yet
neither he nor Mrs. Endecott removed their connection with the Salem
church, until November, 1664. A large and brilliant comet made its
appearance on the 17th of November of this year, and continued to the
4th of February following. It was the general belief of that period,
that comets were omens of great evil. One appeared just before the
death of that distinguished divine, the Rev. John Cotton; and the
death at this time of their aged Governor, and the troubles with
which the Colony met the next year from the King's Commissioners,
Hutchinson informs us, tended to confirm the people in their opinion.

We are told that "old age and the infirmities thereof coming upon
him, he fell asleep in the Lord on the 15th of March, 1665," at
the age of 77, "and was with great honour and solemnity interred
at Boston," on the 23rd of the same month. His death was easy and
tranquil. Tradition has handed down the fact, that the "Chapel
Burying-Ground" was the place of his interment. But the exact spot
is not now known. No stone marks the resting-place of this intrepid
Father of New England.[17] Yet his name alone will ever be a monument
to his memory, more enduring than marble, and as imperishable as the
granite hills of his adopted country.

Gov. Endecott came to this country in 1628, at the age of 40, and
died in 1665, at the age of 77. During these thirty-seven years he
was nearly all the time in public life, and for about seventeen
years, or nearly half the whole period, he was Governor of the
Colony. He was longer at the head of the administration than any
other Governor of Massachusetts.

He was a man of highly respectable natural talents, good education,
a zealous Puritan, a brave man, a decided patriotic republican, a
friend of learning and religion, a lover of God and his country.

We frankly acknowledge that the conduct of Gov. Endecott in the
religious intolerance of his day, may be considered a stain upon his
escutcheon. Yet, while we admit that those severe measures which were
adopted, especially when contrasted with the present unrestrained
exercise of religious freedom in our country, were great blemishes on
his administration, we think they certainly ought not to be regarded
as such on his moral character. It was not the cause of religion
alone, which was thought to be endangered by the dissemination and
triumph of such principles as were then advanced; but the overthrow
of all civil government was looked upon as the ultimate result.
Besides, the _whole_ responsibility and obloquy of this dark page in
our early history, should not be thrown upon him. True, he was the
official organ through which was carried into effect the established
laws of the Colony, and _vox populi_ was believed to be _vox Dei_.
But so far as he was individually concerned, we think his motives
were pure and elevated, and that all his actions were based upon
principle. Without doubt he partook largely of the prevailing
prejudices of the day; and the wild spirit of fanaticism found in him
a strenuous and energetic opponent. But we hold that all men should
be judged according to the light of the age in which they live, and
the influences with which they are surrounded. In this dread of
unlimited toleration he was not alone; it was the prevailing temper
of the times, and the errors in this respect, in which he shared in
common with the wise and good of his day, arose rather from an error
in judgment than any obliquity of heart.

It has been remarked by a recent writer, that "Governor Endecott
was undoubtedly the finest specimen to be found among our Governors
of the genuine Puritan character,--of a quick temper, which the
habit of military command had not softened,--of strong religious
feelings, moulded on the sterner features of Calvinism; resolute to
uphold with the sword what he received as gospel truth, and fearing
no enemy so much as a gainsaying spirit." "He was a very virtuous
gentleman," says Secretary Morton, "and was greatly beloved of the
most, as he well deserved." "In his public and private relations,"
says the Annalist of Salem, "he was a man of unshaken integrity. _For
my country and my God_, was the motto inscribed upon his motives,
purposes, and deeds. That he had his imperfections, there is no
doubt; but that he exhibited as few of them under his multiplied
duties, as the most excellent men would in his situation, is equally
correct. His many exertions for the prosperity of Salem, and his
ardent attachment to it, should impress his name and worth upon the
hearts of its inhabitants, so long as its existence continues."

Thus lived and thus died, one of the principal founders and firmest
pillars of New England.

At his decease he left a widow and two sons. The elder son left no
children;--the younger was a physician, and resided in Salem. He was
twice married; and a family of five sons and five daughters survived
him. His second wife was Elisabeth, daughter of Governor Winthrop,
and widow of the Rev. Antipas Newman of Wenham.

There exists a perfect genealogy of the Governor's family, so far as
relates to his descendants in New England. We hope to publish it in
our next number.

The Governor, and all his descendants, to the third generation,
(1724,) spelt their names _Endecott_; since then an _i_ has been
substituted for the _e_ in the second syllable.

There is an original portrait of the Governor in possession of
one of the family, taken the year he died. By this we learn that
his countenance was open, energetic, and independent, possessing
much individuality of expression, and in perfect harmony with the
character of the man. According to the custom of the age, he wore
mustaches, and a tuft of hair upon his chin. The miniature likeness
which accompanies this Memoir was engraved from this portrait, and is
considered an excellent resemblance, and was presented by the family
to the New England Historic Genealogical Society, Boston, at their
solicitation.

  NOTE. The Charter posesssed by Gov. Endecott, and which is now in
  the Salem Athenæum, and the Charter possessed by Gov. Winthrop,
  and which is now in the State House, Boston, appear to be
  duplicate original Charters, provided for in the Charter itself,
  and neither of them copies. They are precisely alike in all
  respects--the same in phraseology and chirography, and the same
  in dates. Each Governor was elected and commissioned by the same
  Company, and by the same Colony, acted under the same Charter,
  with the same authority, and each alike entitled to the official
  designation of Governor, whether he was elected Governor by the
  Company in London, or by the Colony here, for both were elected
  Governor by each.




ORIGINAL COVENANT OF THE FIRST CHURCH IN SALEM.[18]


We Covenant with our Lord, and one with another; and we do bind
ourselves in the presence of God, to walk together in all his ways,
according as he is pleased to reveal himself unto us in his blessed
word of truth; and do explicitly, in the name and fear of God,
profess and protest to walk as followeth, through the power and grace
of our Lord Jesus Christ.

We avouch the Lord to be our God, and ourselves to be his people, in
the truth and simplicity of our spirits.

We give ourselves to the Lord Jesus Christ, and the word of his
grace, for the teaching, ruling, and sanctifying of us in matters of
worship and conversation, resolving to cleave unto him alone for life
and glory, and to reject all contrary ways, canons, and constitutions
of men, in his worship.

We promise to walk with our brethren, with all watchfulness and
tenderness, avoiding jealousies and suspicions, back-bitings,
censurings, provokings, secret risings of spirit against them; but in
all offences to follow the rule of our Lord Jesus, and to bear and
forbear, give and forgive, as he hath taught us.

In public or private, we will willingly do nothing to the offence
of the church; but will be willing to take advice for ourselves and
ours, as occasion shall be presented.

We will not in the congregation be forward, either to show our own
gifts and parts in speaking or scrupling, or there discover the
weakness or failings of our brethren; but attend an orderly call
thereunto, knowing how much the Lord may be dishonored, and his
gospel and the profession of it slighted, by our distempers and
weaknesses in public.

We bind ourselves to study the advancement of the gospel in all truth
and peace, both in regard to those that are within or without; no way
slighting our sister churches, but using their counsel as need shall
be; not laying a stumbling-block before any, no, not the Indians,
whose good we desire to promote; and so to converse as we may avoid
the very appearance of evil.

We do hereby promise to carry ourselves in all lawful obedience
to those that are over us, in Church or Commonwealth, knowing
how well-pleasing it will be to the Lord, that they should have
encouragement in their places, by our not grieving their spirits
through our irregularities.

We resolve to approve ourselves to the Lord in our particular
callings, shunning idleness as the bane of any state; nor will we
deal hardly or oppressingly with any, wherein we are the Lord's
stewards.

Promising also unto our best ability to teach our children and
servants the knowledge of God, and of his will, that they may serve
him also; and all this not by any strength of our own, but by the
Lord Christ, whose blood we desire may sprinkle this our Covenant
made in His Name.




HERALDRY.


In preparing this article we have consulted various writers on the
subject of Heraldry, and not only selected our thoughts from theirs,
but used their language when it appeared best adapted to our object.
For a more full account of Heraldry in all its branches, we refer
our readers to Guillim's Banner Displayed, Camden's British Remains,
Kent's Grammar of Heraldry, Edmonson's Complete Body of Heraldry,
Leigh's Accidence of Armorie, Playfair's British Baronetage,
Burke's Peerage and Baronetage, Noble's History of the College
of Arms, Lower's Curiosities of Heraldry, Dallaway's Inquiries,
Newton's Display of Heraldry, Broun's Baronetage, Collins's Peerage
of England, Betham's Baronetage of England, and the various
Encyclopædias.


DEFINITION.

HERALDRY is the science of conventional distinctions impressed on
shields, banners, and other military accoutrements; or it is the art
of armory and blazoning, or the knowledge of what relates to the
bearing of arms, and the laws and regulations appertaining thereto.
Arms in heraldry are ensigns armorial or marks of honor borne upon
shields, banners, and coats of mail, in order to distinction. The
science of Heraldry consists particularly in the appropriation of
figurative representations, designed, by suitable emblems, to exhibit
the achievements of valor, the descent of hereditary honors, and the
distinctions appertaining to nobility.

The Degrees of Honor existing in England in 1597, were nine; of which
five were _noble_, as Gentleman, Esquire, Knight, Baron, and Lord;
and four were _excellent_, as Earl, Marquess, Duke, and Prince.--The
Degrees of Honor existing in the British nation in 1847 are eleven;
namely, Gentleman, Esquire, Knight, Baron, Baronet, Lord, Viscount,
Earl, Marquess, Duke, and Prince.


ORIGIN AND HISTORY.

Arms may belong to individuals, to families, or to countries. Badges
and emblems on shields and helms occurred in the earliest times.
In Numbers, (_chap._ i: 52,) the children of Israel are enjoined
to pitch their tents, "every man by his own camp and every man by
his own standard," with the ensigns of his father's house. The
Greek and Roman poets speak of paintings and devices on shields and
helmets. These symbols were, moreover, hereditary. Thus Xenophon
relates that the kings of the Medes bore a golden eagle on their
shields. Suetonius asserts that Domitian had a golden beard for
his coat of arms; and Tacitus says of the ancient Germans, that
they marked their shields with brilliant colors, and that certain
standards were borne before them in battle. Notwithstanding these
traces of armorial bearings in the ancient world, our heraldry is
no older than the tournaments. That armory first became common and
regulated by certain rules at these solemn festivals, is corroborated
by the following reasons. In the first place, we find no tomb or
monument with escutcheons, older than the eleventh century. The
most ancient monument of this kind is said to be the bearings of a
certain Varmond, count of Vasserburg, in the church of St. Emmeran,
at Ratisbon. The shield is _coupé_ of argent and sable; over it is a
lion, with the words "_Anno Domini_ MX." On most of the other tombs,
even of the eleventh century, no arms are found; and the use of them
seems to have first become common in the twelfth century. The first
pope who can be proved to have had a coat of arms, is Boniface VIII.,
who filled the papal see from 1294 to 1303. All the earlier papal
arms are the fanciful inventions of later flatterers. On coins, also,
no armorial ensigns are found till the thirteenth century. A second
proof of our assumed origin of coats of arms is the word _blason_,
which denotes the science of heraldry in French, English, Italian,
and Spanish. This word has most probably its origin in the German
word _blasen_, (to blow the horn;) for whenever a new knight appeared
at a tournament, the herald had to sound the trumpet, and, because
all appeared with close visors, to proclaim and explain the bearing
of the shield or coat of arms belonging to each. Because this was
performed by the herald, this knowledge was called heraldry; and
because, in doing so, he blew the trumpet, it was called _blazoning
the arms_. That this was a prevailing practice at tournaments, may
be proved from the poetry of the Troubadours of the twelfth and
thirteenth centuries. Thence it came, that those knights, whose right
to appear at tournaments had already been announced by blazoning
their arms, bore two trumpets on their crest. From the Germans, this
custom was transmitted to the French; for there is no doubt, that
tournaments were usual in Germany much earlier than in France. But
the French carried to far greater perfection the tournament, and the
blazon or heraldry connected with it, as they did the whole system
of chivalry. Since, moreover, the French language prevailed at the
court of the Norman kings in England, pure French expressions have
been preserved in British heraldry. Thus the green tincture, (color,)
in a coat of arms, is termed _vert_, (though in French _sinople_,
which originally denoted a _reddish brown_;) bright red is termed
_gueules_, probably with an allusion to the bloody revenge of wild
animals, which play so conspicuous a part in heraldry; the divided
shield is, moreover, called _coupé_; and _passant_, _regardant_,
_dormant_, _couchant_, &c., are used. German heraldry, on the
contrary, contains almost pure German expressions. In a coat of arms,
the helm is placed upon the shield, and the latter is surrounded
by the wreath. At a tournament, the mantle of the knight, with the
helm and shield, was suspended in the lists. The colors or tinctures
of the shields had their foundation in the custom of the most
ancient Germans, of giving their shields various colors--a custom
which received a tender meaning in the tournaments of the middle
ages; the knight, bound to defend the honor of dames, and devote
himself to their protection, wearing their colors on his shield.
By degrees, the partitions or sections on shields came into use;
for when, as often occurred, a knight was the champion of several
ladies, he bore several colors on his shield, which had therefore to
be divided into fields. When the martial youth of almost all Europe
left their homes, about the end of the eleventh century, inspired
with religious enthusiasm, to conquer the Holy Land, the use of arms
became still more general and necessary. In order to distinguish the
nations, armies, and families, the princes and commanders chose their
symbols, sometimes in commemoration of the exploits and events of the
campaign, or of the dignity of the commander, and sometimes from mere
fancy or passing humor.


BLAZONING, HISTORIFYING, AND MARSHALLING ARMS.

Blazoning is the methodical description of a bearing. In the first
place, the shield is described according to its tinctures, figures,
and partitions. The inferior parts of an escutcheon are then
blazoned--the helm, with its insignia, which are trumpet, wings, and
plumes, men and animals, or their members; then the wreath and its
tinctures; after which the coronet cap, &c.; finally the supporters,
the mantle, the device, and other secondary things. Such terms for
the color must be used as are agreeable to the station and quality
of the bearer. All persons below the degree of noble must have their
coats blazoned by colors and metals; noble men by precious stones;
and kings and princes by planets.

In emblazoning shields of arms, metals, colors, and furs are
used to depict the device, the technical terms of which are
these;--of metals, gold, called _or_, and silver, _argent_, only
are employed;--of colors, red, called _gules_, blue, _azure_,
black, _sable_, green, _vert_, and purple, _purpure_;--and of furs,
principally the skin of the little animal called _ermine_, and a
combination of grey and white squirrel skins, called _vair_.

In blazoning arms it is an established rule with heralds, that
animals are always to be interpreted in the best sense, that is,
according to their most noble and generous qualities, that the most
honor may redound to the bearers. Thus the fox, being reputed witty
and given to filching for his prey, if this be the charge of an
escutcheon, we are to conceive the quality represented to be his wit
and cunning, and not his theft.

All savage beasts are to be figured in their fiercest action: as
a lion erected, his mouth wide open, his claws extended; and thus
formed he is said to be _rampant_. A leopard or wolf is to be
portrayed going as it were _pedetentim_, which form of action suits
their natural disposition, and is called _passant_. The gentler kinds
are to be set forth in their noblest and most advantageous action, as
a horse running or vaulting, a greyhound coursing, a deer tripping, a
lamb going with smooth and easy pace.

Every animal is to be represented as moving or looking to the right
side of the shield; and it is a general rule, that the right foot be
placed foremost, because the right side is reckoned the beginning
of motion. The upper part is nobler than the lower, and things
that are constrained either to look up or down, ought rather to be
designed looking upwards. We observe however that notwithstanding
such precepts of Guillim and other masters of armory, there are
lions _passant_, _couchant_, _dormant_, as well as _rampant_, and
most animals in arms look down and not up. Birds are esteemed a
more honorable bearing than fish, and wild and ravenous birds than
tame ones. When their bills and feet are of a different color from
the rest, they are said to be _membered_. Birds of prey are more
properly said to be _armed_. In the blazoning of fowls much exercised
in flight, if the wings be not displayed, they are said to be borne
_close_, for example, he beareth an eagle, a hawk, or a swallow,
_close_. Fish are borne different ways, upright, embowed, extended,
endorsed, surmounted of each other, fretted, triangled. Those borne
feeding should be termed _devouring_. Those borne directly upright
are termed _Hauriant_, and those borne traverse the escutcheon,
_naiant_.

To historify, in heraldry, is to explain the history of a coat of
arms, its origin, and the changes it has undergone. If the herald
is to explain a bearing historically, he must show that this figure
is the proper emblem of the family or country. He derives, for
instance, from historical sources, the proof that the double-headed
eagle of the Roman king was first introduced in the beginning of the
fourteenth century, under Albert I., and that previously, from the
time of Otho II., the royal eagle had but one head; that the three
leopards in the English arms were first derived in 1127, under Henry
I., from the Norman house.--The marshalling of arms consists in the
preparation of new escutcheons. In this matter, the herald either
follows the orders of a sovereign, or he invents the idea, and makes
the plan of the escutcheon according to his own judgment, or he
composes a new escutcheon from several coats of arms.


DIFFERENT KINDS OF ARMS.

In heraldic science, arms are distinguished by different names, to
denote the causes of their being borne, such as _arms of dominion_,
of _pretension_, of _concession_, of _community_, of _patronage_, of
_family_, of _alliance_, of _succession_, and of _assumption_. Those
of _dominion_ and _sovereignty_ are those which emperors, kings,
and sovereign states constantly bear, being, as it were, annexed to
the territories, kingdoms, and provinces they possess. Thus there
are the arms of England, of France, of the United States, &c. Arms
of _pretension_ are those of kingdoms, provinces, or territories,
to which a prince or lord has some claim, and which he adds to his
own, although such kingdoms or territories are possessed by another
prince or lord. Arms of _concession_, or _augmentation of honor_,
are entire arms, as the fortress of Gibraltar on the escutcheon of
Lord Heathfield. Arms of _community_ belong to bishoprics, cities,
companies, &c. Arms of _patronage_, to governors of provinces, lords
of manors, &c. Arms of _family_ are the property of individuals;
and it is criminal in any persons not of the family to assume them.
Arms of _alliance_ show the union of families and individuals. Arms
of _succession_ are taken up, by those who inherit certain estates,
manors, &c., either by will, entail, or donation, and which they
impale or quarter with their own. This multiplies the titles of
some families from necessity, and not from ostentation. Arms of
_assumption_, or _assumptive arms,_ are taken up by the caprice or
fancy of persons who assume them without a legal title. They are also
such as a man of his proper right may assume, with the approbation of
his sovereign and of the king of arms.


PARTS OF A COAT OF ARMS.

The parts of arms are the escutcheon, the tinctures, charges, and
ornaments. Heralds distinguish nine different points in escutcheons,
in order to determine exactly the positions of the bearing they are
charged with, as in the figure.

[Illustration: (The nine points of escutcheons.)]

  +-----------------+
  |  A     B     C  |
  |                 |
  |        D        |
  |                 |
  |        E        |
  |                 |
  |        F        |
  |                 |
  | G            I  |
   \       H       /
    \             /
     +-----------+

A, dexter chief; B, precise middle chief; C, sinister chief; D, honor
point; E, fess point; F, nombril point; G, dexter base; H, precise
middle base; I, sinister base. The _tinctures_ mean the variable hue
common both to the shields and their bearings; and there are seven
tinctures--yellow or gold, expressed by dots; white or argent; red,
by perpendicular lines; blue or azure, by horizontal lines; purple,
by diagonal lines from right to left; green, by the same from left
to right; black by horizontal and perpendicular lines crossing; and
orange and blood colors are expressed by diagonal lines crossing
each other. The charges are the emblems occupying the field of the
escutcheon, or any part of it. All charges are distinguished by
the name of _honorable ordinaries_, _sub-ordinaries_, and _common
charges_. Honorable ordinaries, the principal charges in heraldry,
are made of lines only, which, according to their disposition and
form, receive different names. Sub-ordinaries are ancient heraldic
figures frequently used in coats of arms, and which are distinguished
by terms appropriated to each of them. Common charges are composed
of natural, artificial, and even imaginary things, such as stars,
animals, trees, ships, &c. The ornaments that accompany or surround
escutcheons were introduced to denote the birth, dignity, or office
of the person to whom the arms appertain. They are used both by
clergy and laity. Those most in use are of ten sorts; namely,
crowns, coronets, mitres, helmets, mantlings, _chapeaux_, wreaths,
crests, scrolls, and supporters. The crest is the highest part of
the ornaments of a coat of arms. It is called _crest_ from the Latin
word _crista_, which signifies a comb or tuft, such as many birds
have upon their heads, as the peacock, &c. Crests were anciently
marks of great honor, because they were worn only by heroes of great
valor and high rank, that they might be the better distinguished in
an engagement, and thereby rally their men if dispersed. They are
at present considered as mere ornaments. The scroll is an ornament
usually placed below the shield and supporters, containing a motto or
sentence, alluding to the bearing or to the bearer's name.

       *       *       *       *       *

  _Explanation of the Plate on the following page, taken from
  Brande's Dictionary of Science, Literature, and Art._


  I. LINES.

  1. Horizontal or straight. 2. Angled. 3. Bevelled. 4. Escartele.
  5. Nowy or Franche. 6. Arched or enarched. 7. Double arched. 8.
  Wavy or undee. 9. Invected. 10. Engrailed. 11. Battled-embattled,
  or crenellee. 12. Battled-embattled. 13. Nebuly. 14. Potent.
  15. Indented. 16. Dancettec. 17. Dove-tailed. 18. Urdee. 19.
  Rayonnee, or radiant.


  II. POINTS OF THE ESCUTCHEON, COLORS, AND FURS.

  20. Escutcheon, points of. 21. Or. 22. Argent. 23. Gules. 24.
  Azure. 25. Sable. 26. Vert. 27. Purpure. 28. Tenne. 29. Sanguine.
  30. Ermine. 31. Ermines. 32. Erminois. 33. Peau. 34. Vair. 35.
  Varry cuppy.


  III. DIFFERENCES, OR FILIATIONS.

  36. (First son) Label of three points. 37. (Second) Crescent. 38.
  (Third) Mullet. 39. (Fourth) Martlet. 40. (Fifth) Annulet. 41.
  (Sixth) Fleur-de-lis.


  IV. ORDINARIES, &C.

  42. Chief. 43. Pale (between two annulets.) 44. Pallet. 45. Party
  per pale. 46. Border. 47. Bars. 48. Fess. 49. Bend. 50. Bend
  sinister. 51. Border. 52. Chevron. 53. Cross. 54. Cross of St.
  John of Jerusalem, or Malta. 55. Cross patonce. 56. Cross moline.
  57. Cross of St. Andrew. 58. Crosses humettee. 59. Cross moline
  in saltier. 60. Cross bottonee or trefoil. 61. Cross crosslet,
  fitchee. 62. Cross flory. 63. Cross mascle. 64. Cross fitchee.
  65. Lozenge, fleury.


  V. MISCELLANEOUS BEARINGS.

  66. Lion, statant guardant. 67. Passant. 68. Passant guardant.
  69. Rampant. 70. Rampant guardant. 71. Rampant reguardant. 72.
  Sejant. 73. Couchant. 74. Stag at gaze. 75. Stag's head caboshed.
  76. Tiger, heraldic. 77. Dragon. 78. Griffin. 79. Dragon's
  head erased. 80. Wivern. 81. Eagle displayed, with two heads.
  82. Boar's head erased. 83. Water budgets. 84. Snake, bowed
  debruised. 85. Quatrefoil. 86. Trefoils. 87. Fleur-de-lis. 88.
  Clarion, or rest. 89. Mullets.


  VI. CROWNS, CORONETS, &C.

  90. Crown of England. 91. Coronet of the Prince of Wales. 92.
  Coronet of a duke. 93. Marquis. 94. Earl. 95. Viscount. 96.
  Baron. 97. Mitre of a bishop. 98. Eastern, or antique coronet.
  99. Celestial crown. 100. Crown of Edward I. 101. Mortier, or
  cap of state. 102. Chapeau, or cap of maintenance. 103. Crown of
  France. 104. Cardinal's hat. 105. Crown triple, or tiara of the
  pope.

[Illustration]




RATIFICATION OF THE FEDERAL CONSTITUTION BY MASSACHUSETTS.

  [The following account of the Ratification of the Constitution
  of the United States by the Convention of the Commonwealth of
  Massachusetts convened at Boston on the 9th day of January,
  1788, and continued until the 7th of February, was printed in
  the Massachusetts Gazette of Feb. 8th, 1788, published by John
  Wincoll Allen of Boston. It is here inserted as a historical
  document of those times that tried men's souls, which will,
  we think, be read with deep interest by those of the present
  generation. In this way, too, it will be preserved, as it should
  be, for posterity. It is printed as we find it in the Gazette,
  with only the addition of the names of the towns, in which the
  individuals of the Convention resided. Of the Convention, John
  Hancock was President, William Cushing, Vice-President, and
  George Richards Minot, Secretary.]


With the highest satisfaction we announce to the publick, that the
Convention of this commonwealth, on Wednesday last, at five o'clock,
P. M. _ASSENTED TO_ the CONSTITUTION, proposed by the late federal
Convention. On this pleasing event, WE DO HEARTILY congratulate
the publick, and do express our sincere wishes, that the general
joy which it has diffused through all ranks of citizens, may be an
auspicious omen of the superiour advantages which will undoubtedly
result from the establishment of such a federal government as this
constitution provides.

Immediately on the news of this joyful decision being announced, the
bells in every publick building in this metropolis began to ring, and
continued to sound the glad tydings for two hours. At sun set the
Convention adjourned: after which, a multitude of people, from all
quarters, moved into State-Street, where they manifested the joy they
felt from this event, by incessant tokens of approbation, and loud
huzzas. The bells of the North church continued to chime harmonious
peals of gratulations the whole night, and part of the next day.
Illuminations were made and other insignia of joy exhibited.

The yeas and nays, on the question of adoption, being taken,
agreeably to the orders of the day, were as follows, viz.


YEAS.

  His Excellency JOHN HANCOCK, Esq. President, Hon. James Bowdoin,
  hon. Sam. Adams, hon. William Phillips, hon. Caleb Davis,
  Charles Jarvis, esq. John C. Jones, esq. John Winthrop, esq.
  Thomas Dawes, jun. esq. rev. Samuel Stillman, Thomas Russell,
  esq. Christopher Gore, esq. _Boston_, hon. William Heath, hon.
  Increase Sumner, _Roxbury_, James Bowdoin, jun. esq. Ebenezer
  Wales, esq. _Dorchester_, rev. Nathaniel Robbins, _Milton_,
  hon. Richard Cranch, rev. Anthony Wibird, _Braintree_, hon.
  Cotton Tufts, _Weymouth_, hon. Benjamin Lincoln, rev. David
  Shute, _Hingham_, rev. Joseph Jackson, _Brookline_, rev. Thomas
  Thacher, Fisher Ames, esq. _Dedham_, col. William M'Intosh,
  _Needham_, capt. John Baxter, jun. _Medfield_, hon. Elijah
  Dunbar, esq. _Stoughton_, mr. Thomas Mann, _Wrentham_, mr.
  George Payson, _Walpole_, hon. J. Fisher, _Franklin_, mr. Thomas
  Jones, _Hull_, rev. Phillips Payson, _Chelsea_, mr. Ebenezer
  Warren, _Foxborough_, Richard Manning, esq. Edward Pulling,
  esq. mr. William Gray, jun. mr. Francis Cabot, _Salem_, hon.
  Michael Farley, J. Choate, esq. Daniel Noyes, esq. col. Jonathan
  Cogswell, _Ipswich_, hon. Tristram Dalton, Enoch Sawyer, esq.
  E. March, esq. _Newbury_, hon. Rufus King, esq. hon. Benjamin
  Greenleaf, esq. Theophilus Parsons, esq. hon. Jonathan Titcomb,
  _Newburyport_, hon. G. Cabot, mr. Joseph Wood, capt. Israel
  Thorndike, _Beverly_, Isaac Mansfield, esq. Jonathan Glover,
  esq. hon. Azor Orne, John Glover, esq. _Marblehead_, Daniel
  Rogers, esq. John Low, esq. capt. W. Pearson, _Gloucester_,
  John Carnes, esq. capt. John Burnham, _Lynn_ and _Lynnfield_,
  mr. William Symmes, jun. _Andover_, Bailey Bartlett, esq. capt.
  Nathaniel Marsh, _Haverhill_, mr. Israel Clark, _Topsfield_,
  dr. Samuel Nye, mr. Enoch Jackman, _Salisbury_, capt. Benjamin
  Lurvey, mr. Willis Patten, _Amesbury_, Daniel Thurston, esq.
  _Bradford_, mr. Jacob Herrick, _Wenham_, mr. Simeon Miller,
  _Manchester_, hon. Francis Dana, esq. Stephen Dana, esq.
  _Cambridge_, hon. Nathaniel Gorham, esq. _Charlestown_, hon.
  Joseph Hosmer, _Concord_, hon. Abraham Fuller, _Newtown_,
  capt. Lawson Buckminster, _Framingham_, Benjamin Brown, esq.
  _Lexington_, Daniel Whitney, esq. _Sherburne_, capt. Asahel
  Wheeler, _Sudbury_, capt. Benjamin Blaney, _Malden_, capt.
  Abraham Bigelow, _Weston_, maj. gen. John Brooks, _Medford_,
  dr. Charles Whitman, _Stow_, Leonard Williams, esq. _Waltham_,
  hon. J. B. Varnum, _Dracut_, hon. J. Pitts, _Dunstable_, hon.
  E. Brooks, _Lincoln_, W. Pynchon, esq. _Springfield_, hon. C.
  Strong, mr. Benjamin Sheldon, _Northampton_ and _Easthampton_,
  capt. Lemuel Pomeroy, _Southampton_, brig. gen. Elisha Porter,
  _Hadley_, hon. Noah Goodman, _South Hadley_, hon. J. Hastings,
  _Hatfield_, John Ingersol, esq. _Westfield_, mr. Ebenezer James,
  _Northfield_, Abner Morgan, esq. _Brimfield_, capt. David
  Shepard, _Chester_, mr. Jesse Reed, _Charlemont_, Nahum Eager,
  esq. _Worthington_, col. Benjamin Bonney, _Chesterfield_, major
  Thomas J. Douglass, _Northwick_, mr. Aaron Fisher, _Westhampton_,
  mr. Edmund Lazell, _Cummington_ and _Plainfield_, capt. Thomas
  Maxwell, _Buckland_, mr. Elihu Colton, _Longmeadow_, Joshua
  Thomas, esq. mr. Thomas Davis, mr. John Davis, _Plymouth_, hon.
  William Cushing, hon. Nathan Cushing, hon. Charles Turner,
  _Scituate_, hon. George Partridge, _Duxbury_, rev. William Shaw,
  _Marshfield_, Daniel Howard, esq. mr. Hezekiah Hooper, capt.
  Elisha Mitchel, mr. Daniel Howard, jun. _Bridgewater_, rev.
  Isaac Backus, Isaac Thompson, esq. _Middleboro'_, capt. John
  Turner, mr. Josiah Smith, _Pembroke_, William Sever, jun. esq.
  _Kingston_, hon. Joseph Cushing, _Hanover_, rev. Samuel Niles,
  _Abington_, mr. Freeman Waterman, _Halifax_, col. Israel Fearing,
  _Wareham_, Shearjashaub Bourn, esq. _Barnstable_, David Thacher,
  esq. capt. Jonathan Howes, _Yarmouth_, hon. Solomon Freeman,
  capt. Kimball Clark, _Harwich_, rev. Levi Whitman, _Wellfleet_,
  capt. Joseph Palmer, _Falmouth_, James Williams, esq. _Taunton_,
  hon. Elisha May, capt. Moses Willmarth, _Attleboro'_, col.
  Sylvester Richmond, hon. William Baylies, _Dighton_, hon. Thomas
  Durfee, Israel Washburne, esq. _Freetown_, hon. Walter Spooner,
  rev. Samuel West, _New Bedford_, mr. William Almy, _Westport_,
  Nathaniel Barrel, esq. _York_, rev. Moses Hemmenway, hon.
  Nathaniel Wells, _Wells_, Thomas Cutts, esq. _Pepperelboro'_,
  Jacob Bradbury, esq. _Buxton_, capt. John Low, _Coxhall_, mr.
  William Mayhew, _Edgartown_, mr. Cornelius Dunham, _Tisbury_,
  hon. John Sprague, _Lancaster_, capt. Seth Newton, _Southboro'_,
  hon. Samuel Baker, _Bolton_, major David Wilder, _Leominster_,
  mr. Matthew Patrick, _Western_, mr. Josiah Goddard, _Athol_,
  capt. Ephraim Wilder, _Sterling_, John K. Smith, esq. _Falmouth_,
  mr. John Fox, capt. Joseph M'Lellan, _Portland_, David Mitchell,
  esq. Samuel Merrill, esq. _North Yarmouth_, William Thompson,
  esq. _Scarboro'_, capt. John Dunlap, _Brunswick_, capt. Isaac
  Snow, _Harpswell_, mr. Joshua Dyer, _Cape Elisabeth_, rev.
  Samuel Perley, _Gray_, Thomas Rice, esq. mr. David Sylvester,
  _Pownalboro'_, mr. Nathaniel Wyman, _Georgetown_, mr. David
  Gilmore, _Woolwich_, William M'Cobb, esq. _Boothbay_, capt.
  Samuel Grant, _Vassalboro'_, Moses Davis, esq. _Edgecomb_,
  David Fales, esq. _Thomaston_, Dummer Sewall, esq. _Bath_, John
  Ashley, jun. esq. _Sheffield_ and _Mount Washington_, hon. Elijah
  Dwight, _Great Barrington_, hon. T. Sedgwick, _Stockbridge_, hon.
  Jonathan Smith, _Lanesboro'_, hon. T. J. Skinner, _Williamstown_,
  mr. Elisha Carpenter, _Becket_, capt. D. Taylor, _New Marlboro'._
  TOTAL _Yeas_ 187.


NAYS.

  Capt. Jedediah Southworth, _Stoughton_, mr. Nathan Comstock,
  _Wrentham_, mr. Benjamin Randall, _Sharon_, mr. M. Richardson,
  jun. _Medway_, rev. Noah Alden, _Bellingham_, hon. Israel
  Hutchinson, _Danvers_, capt. Peter Osgood, jun. dr. Thomas
  Kittredge, _Andover_, capt. Thomas Mighill, _Rowley_, hon.
  A. Wood, _Boxford_, capt. Ebenezer Carlton, _Methuen_, dr.
  Marshall Spring, _Watertown_, capt. Timothy Winn, _Woburn_,
  mr. William Flint, mr. Peter Emerson, _Reading_, mr. Jonas
  Morse, major Benjamin Sawin, _Marlboro'_, William Thompson,
  esq. _Billerica_, col. Benjamin Ely, capt. John Williston,
  _West Springfield_, capt. Phinehas Stebbins, _Wilbraham_, Mr.
  Daniel Cooley, _Amherst_, Mr. Benjamin Eastman, _Granby_, Mr.
  Josiah Allis, _Whately_, mr. William Bodman, _Williamsburg_, mr.
  Samuel Field, _Deerfield_, mr. Moses Bascom, _Greenfield_, mr.
  Robert Wilson, _Shelburne_, capt. Consider Arms, mr. Malachi
  Maynard, _Conway_, capt. Zacheus Crocker, _Sunderland_, mr.
  Moses Severance, _Montague_, capt. Asa Fisk, _South Brimfield_,
  mr. Phinehas Merrick, _Monson_, mr. Adam Clark, _Pelham_, capt.
  Nathaniel Whitcomb, _Greenwich_, mr. Timothy Blair, _Blanford_,
  mr. Aaron Mirrick, _Palmer_, mr. John Hamilton, Mr. Clark Cooley,
  _Granville_, mr. John Chamberlain, _New Salem_, mr. Justus
  Dwight, _Belchertown_, mr. Samuel Eddy, _Colrain_, mr. Isaac
  Pepper, _Ware_, capt. John Goldsbury, _Warwick_ and _Orange_,
  capt. Agrippa Wells, _Bernardston_, mr. Ephraim Williams,
  _Ashfield_, mr. Asa Powers, _Shutesbury_, capt. Silas Fowler,
  _Southwick_, mr. John Jennings, _Ludlow_, mr. Jonathan Hubbard,
  _Leverett_, mr. Benjamin Thomas, mr. Isaac Soul, _Middleboro'_,
  mr. Nathaniel Hammond, mr. Abraham Holmes, _Rochester_, capt.
  Francis Shurtliff, mr. Elisha Bisbee, jun. _Plympton_, dr. Thomas
  Smith, mr. Thomas Nye, _Sandwich_, col. Nathaniel Leonard, mr.
  Aaron Pratt, _Taunton_, capt. Phanuel Bishop, major Frederick
  Drown, William Windsor, esq. _Rehoboth_, mr. Christopher Mason,
  mr. David Brown, _Swansey_, hon. Holder Slocum, mr. Melatiah
  Hathway, _Dartmouth_, hon. Abraham White, _Norton_, capt.
  Ebenezer Tisdell, _Easton_, capt. John Pratt, _Mansfield_,
  capt. Esaias Preble, _York_, mr. Mark Adams, mr. James Neal,
  _Kittery_, capt. Elijah Thayer, dr. Nathaniel Low, mr. Richard
  Foxwell Cutts, _Berwick_, mr. Thomas M. Wentworth, _Lebanon_,
  major Samuel Nasson, _Sanford_, mr. Moses Ames, _Fryeburg_, Mr.
  Jeremiah Emery, _Shapleigh_, rev. Pelatiah Tingley, _Waterboro',_
  mr. David Bigelow, _Worcester_, Edward Thompson, esq. _Mendon_,
  major John Minot, _Chelmsford_, capt. Gilbert Dench, _Hopkinton_,
  mr. Jonathan Keep, _Westford_, dr. Benjamin Morse, Joseph Sheple,
  esq. _Groton_, mr. Obadiah Sawtell, _Shirley_, mr. Daniel Fisk,
  _Pepperell_, capt. Daniel Adams, _Townsend_, capt. John Webber,
  _Bedford_, capt. Sta. Chamberlain, _Holliston_, mr. Asa Parlin,
  _Acton_ and _Carlisle_, capt. J. Harnden, _Wilmington_, mr.
  Newman Scarlet, _Tewksbury_, mr. Samuel Reed, _Littleton_,
  mr. Benjamin Adams, _Ashby_, major Hezekiah Bread, _Natick_,
  capt. Jonathan Green, _Stoneham_, mr. Phinehas Gleason, _East
  Sudbury_, mr. Daniel Forbes, mr. N. Jenks, _Brookfield_, capt.
  Jeremiah Learned, _Oxford_, mr. Caleb Curtis, Mr. Ezra M'Intier,
  _Charlton_, mr. David Harwood, hon. Amos Singletary, _Sutton_,
  col. Samuel Denny, _Leicester_, mr. James Hathua, _Spencer_, mr.
  Asaph Shermon, _Rutland_, mr. Abraham Smith, _Paxton_, capt.
  Jonathan Bullard, _Oakham_, capt. John Black, _Barre_, capt. John
  Woods, _Hubbardston_, capt. Benjamin Joslyn, _New Braintree_,
  capt. Stephen Maynard, _Westboro'_, mr. Artemas Brigham,
  _Northboro'_, capt. Isaac Harrington, _Shrewsbury_, capt. John
  Fuller, _Lunenburg_, mr. Daniel Putnam, _Fitchburg_, dr. Samuel
  Willard, _Uxbridge_, Josiah Whitney, esq. _Harvard_, mr. Jonathan
  Day, _Dudley_, capt. Thomas M. Baker, _Upton_, capt. Timothy
  Parker, _Sturbridge_, major Martin Kingsley, _Hardwick_, rev.
  Joseph Davis, _Holden_, hon. John Taylor, _Douglass_, dr. Joseph
  Wood, _Grafton_, Jonathan Grant, esq. capt. Samuel Peckham,
  _Petersham_, John Frye, esq. _Royalston_, mr. Stephen Holden,
  _Westminster_, capt. Joel Fletcher, _Templeton_, mr. Timothy
  Fuller, _Princeton_, mr. Jacob Willard, _Ashburnham_, mr. Moses
  Hale, _Winchendon_, capt. Josiah Wood, _Northbridge_, mr. Joseph
  Stone, _Ward_, mr. David Stearns, _Milford_, mr. Jonas Temple,
  _Boylston_, Daniel Ilsley, esq. _Falmouth_, mr. S. Longfellow,
  jun. _Gorham_, William Widgery, _New Gloucester_, capt. David
  Murry, _New Castle_, hon. Samuel Thompson, _Topsham_, mr. Jonah
  Crosby, _Winslow_, mr. Zacheus Beal, _Bowdoinham_, William Jones,
  esq. _Bristol_, capt. James Carr, _Hallowell_, mr. Joshua Bean,
  _Winthrop_, mr. Valentine Rathbun, _Pittsfield_, mr. Comstock
  Betts, _Richmond_, mr. Lemuel Collins, _Lenox_, capt. Jeremiah
  Pierce, _Adams_, Ephraim Fitch, esq. _Egremont_, major Thomas
  Lusk, _West Stockbridge_, mr. John Hurlbert, _Alford_, capt.
  Ezekiel Herrick, _Tyrningham_, mr. Joshua Lawton, _Loudon_, mr.
  Timothy Mason, _Windsor_, Ebenezer Pierce, esq. _Partridgefield_,
  mr. David Vaughan, _Hancock_, capt. Jesse Bradley, _Lee_, mr.
  Zenas Noble, _Washington_, mr. John Picket, jun. _Sandisfield._
  TOTAL _Nays_ 168.

The open, manly and honourable conduct of the gentlemen who
composed the minority, in the great question on Wednesday, taken in
the honourable convention, was very different from the turbulent
opposers of the constitution in Pennsylvania, who, not content with
their declamatory and odious protest against its adoption, are now
endeavouring to involve their country in all the horrours of a civil
war, by exciting tumult and insurrection. On the vote of adoption
being declared,

Honourable mr. WHITE rose, and said, that notwithstanding he had
opposed the adoption of the constitution, upon the idea that it would
endanger the liberties of his country, yet, as a majority had seen
fit to adopt it, he should use his utmost exertions to induce his
constituents to live in peace under, and cheerfully submit to it.

He was followed by mr. WIDGERY, who said, that he should return to
his constituents, and inform them, that he had opposed the adoption
of this constitution, but that he had been overruled, and that he had
been carried by a majority of wise and understanding men: that he
should endeavour to sow the seeds of union and peace among the people
he represented--and that he hoped, and believed, that no person would
wish for, or suggest the measure of a PROTEST; for, said he, we must
consider that this body is as full a representation of the people, as
can be conceived.---- After expressing his thanks for the civility
which the inhabitants of this town have shewn to the convention, and
declaring, as his opinion, that they had not in the least influenced
the decision; he concluded by saying he should support, as much as
in him lay, the constitution, and believed, as this state had adopted
it, not only 9, but the whole 13, would come into the measure.

General WHITNEY said, that though he had been opposed to the
constitution, he should support it as much as if he had voted for it.

Mr. COOLEY, (_Amherst_) said, that he endeavoured to govern himself
by the principles of reason, that he was directed to vote against
the adoption of the constitution, and that in so doing, he had not
only complied with his direction, but had acted according to the
dictates of his own conscience; but that as it has been agreed to by
a majority, he should endeavour to convince his constituents of the
propriety of its adoption.

Doctor TAYLOR, also said, he had uniformly opposed the constitution,
that he found himself fairly beat, and expressed his determination to
go home, and endeavour to infuse a spirit of harmony and love, among
the people.

Other gentlemen expressed their inclination to speak, but it growing
late, the convention adjourned to Thursday morning, at ten o'clock.

_Let this be told to the honour of Massachusetts; to the reputation
of her citizens, as men willing to acquiesce in that republican
principle, of submitting to the decision of a majority._

Yesterday, A. M. the Convention met, according to adjournment, when
a vote was passed for proceeding in procession to the state-house,
and there to declare the ratification of the FEDERAL CONSTITUTION,
which that honourable body, on Wednesday last, by a majority of
NINETEEN assented to, in behalf of the commonwealth of Massachusetts.
About 12 o'clock, the procession moved from their place of session,
preceded by the honourable vice-president of the Convention. His
excellency the president being seated in an elegant vehicle, was
drawn by THIRTEEN patriotick and publick spirited MECHANICKS, who
thus expressed their love and respect for a man who ever loved and
respected his country.

The procession having arrived at the state-house, entered the
senate-chamber, from which his excellency the president, the
vice-president, secretary, high-sheriff of the county of Suffolk,
and other respectable characters, went out upon the balcony of the
state-house, from whence his excellency the president addressed the
multitude who had assembled below, in a short speech, preparatory to
what they were about to hear declared. The high-sheriff then declared
the federal constitution adopted and ratified by the Convention of
the commonwealth of Massachusetts.

After which the whole assembly testified their approbation by the
loudest huzzas.

An elegant repast being provided for the occasion in the
senate-chamber, the Convention, and a great number of other
gentlemen, partook thereof, and exhibited such marks of satisfaction,
as fully evinced, that this joyful event would tend to give vigour
and energy to our future continental administrations. After dinner
the following toasts were drank, viz.

1. His excellency the president and convention of Massachusetts.

2. The president and members of the late continental convention.

3. The states that have adopted the federal constitution.

4. A speedy accession to the union by those states who are yet to
deliberate upon the proposed constitution.

5. May the same candour, and liberality, which has so conspicuously
distinguished the minority of Massachusetts, prevail thro' every
state in the union.

6. May the United States of America be as distinguished for their
increase in agriculture, arts and manufactures, as they are for their
attachment to justice and the liberties of mankind.

7. The great and magnanimous ally of the United States of
America--his most Christian majesty.

8. The United Netherlands.

9. May the States of America be the asylum of every distressed son of
liberty, throughout the world.

10. May the flag of American commerce be displayed in every quarter
of the globe.

11. May the landholders of America soon experience the happy effects
intended by the proposed constitution.

12. May the nations of the world, who would be our rivals in trade,
soon find their disappointment in the energy of our councils.

13. May peace, liberty, and safety, be the perpetual birthright of an
American.

It seems that the joy which the adoption of the proposed constitution
has diffused, is not only general, but sincere and grateful.--The
rising sun of yesterday's morn, by its brightness and refulgent
beams, seemed to break forth, from the dusky horizon, with uncommon
grandeur, partaking, as it were, of the joy in which an event so
propitious immersed the souls of the people. The bells of all the
churches, &c. in town, began ringing at early dawn, and continued,
most of them without intermission, thro' the day, and part of last
evening.

The hardy sons of Neptune, seemed not to be insensible of the
importance of this great event; for having procured a boat, which
they fixed on a sled, they continued to draw it through the town till
near the close of the day, frequently huzzaing, and loudly exulting
in the anticipation of reviving and flourishing commerce. In the boat
was displayed the flag of the United States, and musick, which kept
continually playing.

In a cart, drawn by five horses, the British flag was displayed,
and insulted by numbers placed in the cart, armed with muskets, who
repeatedly discharged the contents of them through the tattered
remnant, in contempt of that faithless nation, whose exertions have
been unremitted since the peace, to cramp our commerce and obstruct
all our nautical proceedings.

Repeated marks of joy were exhibited during the course of the day by
the lovers and well wishers of our country, but we believe none will
exceed the exhibition which is to take place this day, as will appear
by the following


NOTICE

TO THE TRADESMEN.

THE COMMITTEE of MECHANICKS appointed at their meeting the 7th. ult.
present their compliments to the several TRADESMEN, MECHANICKS, and
ARTIZANS of every description in the town of Boston, and request
their attendance at Faneuil Hall, this morning, at NINE o'clock, in
order to form and proceed in GRAND PROCESSION therefrom, to testify
their approbation of the ratification of the Federal Constitution, by
the Convention of this commonwealth the 6th instant.

They recommend that the procession be formed as follows--First,
a plough, drawn by a horse, with husbandmen carrying proper
utensils--Then the tradesmen, &c. of the town, each with some tool,
decorated; to proceed by trades; each trade with one person at its
head. With the ship-builders, &c. will be a boat, drawn by horses,
properly manned. They request that the procession may be as full as
possible; that the several drummers, fifers, and other musicians in
the town, will join the procession, with their instruments.

The rout of the procession will be mentioned at the Hall.

Boston, February 7, 1788.




LETTER OF CHIEF-JUSTICE SARGEANT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

  [The following are extracts from a letter of Judge Sargeant to
  the Hon. Joseph Badger of Gilmanton, N. H., who was a Delegate
  to the Convention of that state for the adoption of the Federal
  Constitution.]


  I make no doubt but you have carefully compared y^e old
  confederation with y^e new constitution and I wish you to review
  them again. Can there be such a thing as Government without
  Power? What is advice, recommendation, or requisition? It is not
  Government.--Congress has a right to raise an army, to make war
  and Peace, of entering into Treaties and alliances to borrow
  money and appropriate y^e same--to ascertain y^e sums necessary
  to be raised for y^e Service of y^e United States--to emit bills
  of credit--to build and equip a navy, and to make requisitions
  on y^e states for their quota of men, to Cloath, arm and equip
  them. But who will lend Congress Money when they have not Power
  to raise a Single Shilling to repay them? Who will take their
  bills of Credit when every Body knows they can never redeem them?
  Who will enlist into their army when Congress has no money to
  pay them a Bounty or their wages or find them in Provisions? Who
  will build and equip a navy for them without money? Who will
  trouble themselves about Congress' making war or Peace when they
  can't command a Shilling to support a war? To what Purpose is
  it to appropriate money when they can't get it?--What end does
  it answer for other nations to make treaties and alliances with
  Congress when any one State by its obstinacy, fraud or some
  Paltry private interest may defeat y^e treaty or by main force
  break through it?

  What good end will be answered by ascertaining y^e Sums necessary
  to be raised when thirteen independent Legislatures are to judge
  whether those sums are necessary or not and whether they will
  raise them or not and if one State won't raise their quota, y^e
  other states are more than foolish, they are distracted if they
  raise theirs.--What effect will a requisition on y^e states
  for raising, cloathing, arming, and equipping their quotas of
  men have, when y^e 13 Legislatures are left to judge of y^e
  expediency, or necessity of this equipment, whether they are
  not charged above their proportion--whether it won't do as well
  sometime hence? What security is it possible to have under such a
  Government? A Government without energy, without power. Zeal and
  enthusiasm carried us thro' y^e last war without any Government
  till March 1781, when y^e Confederation was compleated and then
  we hobbled along 21 months longer under it until peace took
  place, and since y^e Peace, Requisitions from Congress have had
  no more effect than y^e Pope's bulls wou'd have had. The old
  Confederation is just y^e same to y^e United States as a people,
  as a milk and water diet wou'd be to a labouring man, both wou'd
  grow weaker and weaker till they were not able to crawl. Nothing
  ever gave us any respectability abroad but y^e readiness and
  chearfulness with which we complied with all y^e recommendations
  of Congress when we had no Government at all. That enabled us
  to form treaties with other nations, to hire money, and their
  hatred to Great Britain engaged them to join in y^e war against
  her. The nations in Europe discovered this weakness long before
  we did. Great Britain for 5 years has refused to make any Treaty
  of commerce with us, has shut all her Ports against our shipping,
  while our Ports are filled with their shipping and seamen and
  are picking up our seamen for their employ--they bring their
  Produce and manufactures to us to buy but won't let us carry
  our own to them. They have embarrass'd our commerce with other
  nations by setting y^e Algerines upon our shipping and thereby
  obliged us to give 5 per Cent. to them for insurance against the
  Algerines--all this while we have not had y^e power to retalliate
  upon them in one Single Article. The other Powers viz: France,
  Holland, Spain and Portugal have now taken y^e hint and are
  imposing duties upon our Produce and Manufactures to y^e great
  encouragement of their own and discouragement of ours, and we
  can't make any Regulations to counterwork them. Massachusetts
  some years ago took y^e lead and made some very advantageous
  Regulations. New Hampshire followed, and Rhode Island adopted a
  small part. Soon y^e People in New Hampshire grew restive and
  obliged y^e Government to repeal y^e same. Rhode Island followed
  and Massachusetts was obliged to follow them, so that you see
  what a rope of sand we are. This conduct of y^e European nations
  will in time, if it produces good Government, prove of eminent
  advantage to us. They drained us of almost all our Cash. This put
  People upon being industrious and frugal. Industry has occasioned
  great improvements in agriculture and in manufactures. The first
  has rendered Provisions plenty and so cheap that we sell them
  to almost all nations. The latter has supplied us with many
  necessaries which we used to send cash for, and we remitted to
  other nations pay for what necessaries we wanted. Frugality has
  prevented us from sending our Cash abroad for many Superfluities
  which we can do as well or perhaps better without; so that now it
  is an undoubted fact that y^e exports from America greatly exceed
  y^e imports; consequently Cash may now become as plenty as it
  wou'd be best it shou'd be.

  The old Confederation without Power or Energy destroyed y^e
  Credit of y^e United States. The scarcity of Cash, and y^e
  embarrassments of y^e Government, for want of some fixed
  System of finance has destroyed y^e credit of y^e individual
  States--different Tender acts in different States, different
  sorts of paper money in different States, (for almost all y^e
  States have either paper money or tender acts,) have destroyed
  private Credit; so that we are now as a people and as individuals
  totally without either public or private Credit. Under these
  circumstances money never can circulate in plenty, let y^e
  advantages for importing it be what they may--

  Is it now possible for a Government, under these disadvantages,
  whether it be continental or particular, to support itself any
  length of time? Will not private industry be discouraged? Can
  such a Government protect y^e industrious from y^e hands of
  invaders or y^e more savage hands of violence among ourselves?
  Anarchy will soon rear its head and y^e Tyranny of some ambitious
  Demagogue will soon tread on its heels. Suppose for a moment y^e
  General Court of New Hampshire or Massachusetts were to agree
  that such a sum of money was necessary to be raised for y^e
  building and maintaining of a colledge for supporting schools
  in different Parts, for supporting ministers, for encouraging
  y^e Iron manufactory, y^e manufactory of cloath, for repairing
  y^e highways, for training and disciplining y^e militia, and
  procuring a stock of guns and ammunition and building forts for
  y^e defence of y^e State and then send a recommendation to y^e
  several towns desiring them to raise their quota of that sum,
  being so much.

  Wou'd not this be a laughable way of raising money for y^e public
  exigences? One town wou'd say there was no need of building
  a Colledge; others wou'd say there is no need of Schools or
  ministers; let them that work Iron and cloath get their own pay;
  our highways will do well enough without repairs; y^e militia
  are good gunners already, there is no need of forts, and there
  is no war at hand, and we can do without Guns and ammunition a
  little longer; besides all they have rated our town too high.
  Wou'd not this be y^e common language? A precious little money
  wou'd be raised, I trow. Let me ask, if y^e People in our town
  meetings are competent Judges of y^e necessity and advantage of
  raising money for these purposes? You will instantly answer me,
  no not one in six. Can they have large and extensive views of
  y^e interest, of y^e essential and important interests of y^e
  whole state? No, perhaps, not one, thô many of them when they
  had met with other persons from all parts of y^e state, and had
  freely conversed with them might be good Judges afterwards. How
  absurd and impolitic then is it to trust y^e great affairs and
  interests of a continent, 1500 miles long and 1000 miles wide to
  y^e determination of 2600 men deputed from some little spots of
  6 miles square y^e greatest part of whom never went further than
  y^e next market town perhaps, or at y^e outside to y^e shire town
  of y^e state and never expects to go again after his year is up,
  or if he does, it is only to get his 3_s._ 6_d._ a day without
  labour or at y^e most to have y^e honour of saving a small Tax
  upon his own town--and these men are not to meet altogether where
  they might, if disposed, get y^e necessary information to form a
  Judgment by,--but in thirteen different places where they have
  different interests, different leaders and different information.
  How much more ridiculous is it then, that all these men are to
  determine of y^e necessity of Peace or War--of y^e sums of Money
  necessary to be raised, of y^e best and easiest mode of raising
  it thro' all y^e states, regulating y^e value of money thro' all
  y^e states, of defining and punishing Piracies and felonies on
  y^e high seas and of Offences against y^e law of nations--when
  it is necessary and proper to grant Letters of Marque and
  reprisal--what are y^e rights and duties of Ambassadors, Consuls
  and public ministers, what are proper rules respecting captures
  where other nations are concerned with us in y^e capture or are
  interested in y^e vessel captured, what regulations of Trade may
  be carried into effect in other nations so as not to injure our
  own commerce. These and a thousand other matters respecting our
  intercourse with other nations and other great national concerns,
  must be determined by some Body of men with decision and be
  carried into effect too. How preposterous is it then for us to
  think of going on under y^e old Confederation where y^e several
  states or some of them wou'd hiss any Law that might be proposed
  on those matters out of Doors.

  Now let us consider y^e new Constitution. Are there any
  objects, of Legislation in this, which were not left to y^e
  decision of Congress under y^e old Articles? Very few, save
  that of Regulating commerce with foreign nations for want of
  which we have suffered enough already--also to form a rule
  for naturalization Laws about Bankruptcies--fix y^e standard
  of weights and measures--to promote y^e progress of arts
  and Sciences--to prevent counterfeiting y^e Securities and
  current coin of y^e states, to provide for organizing, arming,
  disciplining and calling forth y^e militia on necessary
  occasions; to exercise exclusive Jurisdiction over 10 miles
  square of land where Congress may sit, if so much is ceded to
  them by any state to their satisfaction and such other places
  where continental arsenals are kept. Our People are taught y^e
  necessity of this provision for if a man of less penetration
  and decision had been in y^e chair y^e year before last--they
  would have lost their most useful and costly magazine. Is it not
  reasonable that these matters shou'd be done with uniformity
  thro' y^e states? Can these great objects ever be accomplished
  without making laws to bind all persons in y^e Jurisdiction?
  Who are to make those Laws but y^e Representatives chosen
  by y^e People at large every two years, and where an equal
  representation is provided for, and a Senate chosen by y^e state
  Legislatures, one third of which are to be chosen every two
  years. When Laws are made they are nonsensical unless they can
  be carried into execution; therefore it is necessary somebody
  shou'd have a Power of determining when they are broken, and to
  decree y^e forfieture in consequence of such breach. This shows
  y^e necessity of y^e Judicial Power--and an executive with y^e
  necessary officers are requisite for carrying those decrees into
  execution--and without all this y^e whole parade of making laws
  wou'd be idle.

  That these parts, y^e Judicial and executive, shou'd be
  appointed by congress is necessary in order that y^e proceedings
  may be uniform and to prevent one state from conniving at or
  disregarding y^e laws made for y^e benefit of y^e whole. If they
  are to raise money they must have officers to collect it. These
  must be appointed by Congress or such men will be appointed by
  particular states as will shew y^e most favour--and look thro'
  y^e whole, I believe you will not find a Single Power given but
  what would maim y^e constitution if it was left out. Perhaps it
  may be said this will be an expensive Government. The Legislative
  will not be more expensive, if so much, as y^e present congress
  for after they have got matters a going properly, they may
  be at home half their time. The other officers must be paid
  it is true, but when we consider y^e advantages of a steady
  uniform Government with proper energy, I believe we shall find
  y^e Benefits purchased at a cheap rate. Perhaps some may say
  that this annihilates our own state Governments, and our own
  Legislatures will have nothing to do; but y^e Laws respecting
  criminal offenders in all cases, except Treason, are subjects
  for Legislation. We may increase, lessen, or change punishments
  for crimes as we think best, and make any act criminal or pœnal
  as far as Law can make it so at our pleasure. The regulating
  Towns, parishes, Providing ministers, schools, looking after
  Poor persons, punishing Idlers, vagabonds &c. &c. regulating
  Highways, bridges, fisheries, common fields &c. are also matters
  pertaining to y^e General court--but above all y^e great rules
  for regulating inheritances, descent of estates, Partition of
  them, last wills and Testaments, executors, Administrators, and
  Guardians are subjects for our own Legislation--y^e appointment
  of all courts, and y^e rules of Proceeding in them and of
  determining all controversies between our own citizens, Rules
  of Legitimacy, marriage and divorce and in fine all matters not
  expressly given to congress are still to be the subjects of our
  own Legislation to be carried into Effect by our own courts and
  officers. Over what things does y^e constitution give congress
  a Power only those of great national concern, which require a
  large comprehensive view and which, Heaven knows, our Houses of
  R-p-s-t-tives were never capable of comprehending or of judging
  whether they were acting right or wrong.--I write very freely to
  you, without any reserve. Y^e regard I have for my Children, my
  Kinsmen, my friends, my Neighbours, Posterity and my country,
  makes me bless God that those objects are likely for ever to
  be taken out of such hands, two thirds of whom were never from
  their fire side before, and never comprehended in their view more
  than their own farms and their own little private interest. I
  cou'd write a volume on this subject, but thus much must suffice
  for y^e present. I believe you are tired now as well as your
  affectionate

  Kinsman and sincere friend and Serv^t
  NATH'L PEASLEE SARGEANT.




A COMPLETE LIST OF THE MINISTERS OF BOSTON OF ALL DENOMINATIONS, FROM
1630 TO 1842, ARRANGED IN THE ORDER OF THEIR SETTLEMENT.

BY JAMES C. ODIORNE, M. A.

(Continued from page 136.)


  TABLE LEGEND:   (Part 1 of 2)
  A = _Order of Settlement._
  B = _Names of Ministers._
  C = _Denomination._
  D = _Churches._
  E = _Graduated._

  -----+-----------------------+-------+---------------+-----------
    A  |         B             |   C   |      D        |    E
  -----+-----------------------+-------+---------------+-----------
   91  |David Annan            |Pres.  |Federal St.    |Scotland
   92 {|Claudius Florent       |Cath.  |Chh. Holy Cross|
      {| Bouchard de La Poterie|       |               |
   93  |Peter Thacher          |Cong.  |Brattle St.    |Harv., 1769
   94  |Jeremy Belknap, D. D.  |Cong.  |Federal St.    |Harv., 1762
   95  |William Montague       |Epis.  |Christ Chh.    |Dart., 1784
   96  |Thomas Gair            |Bapt.  |2nd Bapt.      |Brown, 1777
   97  |Samuel West, D. D.     |Cong.  |Hollis St.     |Harv., 1761
   98  |Louis de Rousselet     |Cath.  |Chh. Holy Cross|
   99  |John Thayer            |Cath.  |Chh. Holy Cross|
  100  |Thomas Baldwin, D. D.  |Bapt.  |2nd Bapt.      |----  ----
  101  |Jesse Lee              |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----  ----
  102  |Daniel Smith           |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----  ----
  103 {|John Sylvester John    |Epis.  |Trinity Chh.   |
      {| Gardiner, D. D.       |       |               |
  104  |William Walter, D. D.  |Epis.  |Christ Chh.    |Harv., 1756
  105 {|Francis Anthony        |Cath.  |Chh. Holy Cross|
      {| Matignon, D. D.       |       |               |
  106  |Jeremiah Cosden        |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----  ----
  107  |Amos G. Thompson       |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----  ----
  108 {|John Thornton Kirkland,|Cong.  |New South      |Harv., 1789
      {| D. D., LL.D.          |       |               |
  109  |Christopher Spry       |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----  ----
  110  |Evan Rogers            |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----  ----
  111  |John Harper            |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----  ----
  112  |Joshua Hale            |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  113  |George Pickering       |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  114 {|John de Cheverus, D. D.|Cath.  |Chh. Holy Cross|Coll. Louis
      {|                       |       |               | Le Grand,
      {|                       |       |               |Paris, 1786
  115  |Elias Hull             |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  116  |Daniel Ostander        |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  117  |William Beauchamp      |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  118 {|John Snelling Popkin,  |Cong.  |Federal St.    |Harv., 1792
      {| D. D.                 |       |               |
  119  |William Emerson        |Cong.  |1st. Chh.      |Harv., 1789
  120  |Joshua Wells           |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  121  |Thomas F. Sargent      |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  122  |George Pickering       |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  123  |Samuel Haskell         |Epis.  |Christ Chh.    |Yale, 1790?
  124  |Thomas Lyall           |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  125 {|William Ellery         |Cong.  |Federal St.    |Harv., 1798
      {| Channing, D. D.       |       |               |
  126  |Epaphras Kibby         |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  127 {|Joseph Stephens        |Cong.  |Brattle St.    |Harv., 1800
      {| Buckminster,          |       |               |
  128  |Asa Eaton, D. D.       |Epis.  |Christ Chh.    |Harv., 1803
  129  |Peter Jayne            |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  130  |Reuben Hubbard         |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  131  |Charles Lowell, D. D.  |Cong.  |West Chh.      |Harv., 1800
  132  |Samuel Merwin          |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  133  |Thomas Paul            |Bapt.  |African Bapt.  |
  134  |Daniel Webb            |Meth.  |2nd Meth.      |
  135 {|Joseph Clay            |Bapt.  |1st Bapt.      |Coll. N.J.,
      {|                       |       |               |       1784
  136  |Caleb Blood            |Bapt.  |3d Bapt.       |
  137  |Joshua Huntington      |Cong.  |Old South      |Yale,  1804
  138  |Martin Ruter, D. D.    |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  139  |Elijah R. Sabin        |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  140  |Phillip Munger         |Meth.  |2nd Meth.      |----   ----
  141  |Samuel Cary            |Unit.  |King's Chapel  |Harv., 1804
  142  |Horace Holley, LL.D.   |Cong.  |Hollis St.     |Yale,  1803
  143  |Greenlief Norris       |Meth.  |2nd Meth.      |----   ----
  144  |Edward Mitchell        |Univ.  |1st Univ.      |----   ----
  145  |Samuel Cooper Thacher  |Cong.  |New South      |Harv., 1804
  146  |Elijah Hedding, D. D.  |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  147  |Erastus Otis           |Meth.  |2nd Meth.      |----   ----
  148 {|Edward Dorr Griffin,   |Cong.  |Park St.       |Yale,  1790
      {| D. D.                 |       |               |
  149  |Daniel Sharp, D. D.    |Bapt.  |3d Bapt.       |----   ----
  150  |Paul Dean              |Univ.  |1st Univ.      |----   ----
  151  |William Stephens       |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  152  |William Hinman         |Meth.  |1st and 2nd    |----   ----
       |                       |       |  Meth.        |
  153  |John Lovejoy Abbot     |Cong.  |1st Chh.       |Harv., 1805
  154  |Francis Parkman, D. D. |Cong.  |New North      |Harv., 1807
  155  |Edward Everett, LL.D.  |Cong.  |Brattle St.    |Harv., 1811
  156  |Joseph A. Merrill      |Meth.  |1st and 2nd    |----   ----
       |                       |       |  Meth.        |
  157  |James Manning Winchell |Bapt.  |1st Bapt.      |Brown, 1812
  158  |George Pickering       |Meth.  |1st and 2nd    |----   ----
       |                       |       |  Meth.        |
  159 {|Nathaniel Langdon      |Cong.  |1st Chh.       |Harv., 1811
      {| Frothingham, D. D.    |       |               |
  160  |Daniel Filmore         |Meth.  |1st and 2nd    |----   ----
       |                       |       |  Meth.        |
  161  |Henry Ware, Jun., D. D.|Cong.  |2nd Chh.       |Harv., 1812
  162 {|Sereno Edwards Dwight, |Cong.  |Park St.       |Yale,  1803
      {| D. D.                 |       |               |
  163  |Timothy Merritt        |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  164  |Enoch Mudge            |Meth.  |2nd Meth.      |----   ----
  165  |Hosea Ballou           |Univ.  |2nd Univ.      |----   ----
  166  |Phillip Larisey        |Cath.  |Chh. Holy Cross|
  167 {|John Gorham Palfrey,   |Cong.  |Brattle St.    |Harv., 1815
      {| D. D., LL.D.          |       |               |
  168  |Samuel Snowden         |Meth.  |African Meth.  |----   ----
  169 {|Francis William Pitt   |Cong.  |New South      |Harv., 1814
      {| Greenwood, D. D.      |       |               |
  170 {|James Sabine           |Cong.  |Essex St.      |England
      {|                       |       |               |
      {|                       |       |               |
      {|                       |       |               |
      {|                       |       |               |
  171  |John Pierpont          |Cong.  |Hollis St.     |Yale,  1804
  172  |Benjamin R. Hoyt       |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |
  173  |V. R. Osborn           |Meth.  |2nd Meth.      |
  174  |Simon Clough           |Christ.|1st Christ.    |----   ----
  175  |Patrick Byrne.         |Cath.  |Chh. Holy      |
       |  Assistant            |       |  Cross        |
  176  |D. Kilburn             |Meth.  |2nd Meth.      |----   ----
  177 {|Samuel Farmar Jarvis,  |Epis.  |St. Paul's     |Yale,  1805
      {| D. D., LL.D.          |       |               |
  178 {|Benjamin Blydenburg    |Cong.  |Old South      |Union, 1813
      {| Wisner, D. D.         |       |               |
  179  |William Taylor, D. D.  |Cath.  |Chh. Holy      |
       |                       |       |  Cross        |
  180  |Shipley W. Willson     |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  181  |Ephraim Wiley          |Meth.  |2nd Meth.      |
  182  |Francis Wayland, D. D. |Bapt.  |1st Bapt.      |Union, 1813
  183  |Elijah Hedding, D. D.  |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  184  |Samuel Green           |Cong.  |Essex St.      |Harv., 1816
  185  |Paul Dean              |Univ.  |Bulfinch St.   |----   ----
  186  |John Lindsey           |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |
  187 {|James Sabine           |Pres.  |Church St.     |England
      {|                       |       |               |
  188  |Prince Hawes           |Cong.  |Phillips       |
  189  |Sebastian Streeter     |Univ.  |1st Univ.      |
  190  |Solomon Sias           |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |
  191  |Isaac Bonney           |Meth.  |2nd Meth.      |
  192 {|Ezra Stiles Gannett,   |Cong.  |Federal St.    |Harv., 1820
      {| D. D.                 |       |               |
  193  |John Lauris Blake, D.D.|Epis.  |St. Matthews   |Brown, 1812
  194 {|Francis William Pitt   |Unit.  |King's Chapel  |Harv., 1814
      {| Greenwood, D. D.      |       |               |
  195  |Alexander Young, D. D. |Cong.  |New South      |Harv., 1820
  196  |Samuel Barrett         |Cong.  |Chambers St.   |Harv., 1818
  197 {|Benedict Fenwick, D. D.|Cath.  |Chh. Holy      |Georget'n,
      {|                       |       |  Cross        |  D.C.
  198  |Aaron D. Sargent       |Meth.  |2nd Meth.      |----   ----
  199  |Timothy Merritt        |Meth.  |1st Meth.      |----   ----
  200 {|James Davis Knowles    |Bapt.  |2nd Bapt.      |Col'b. D.C.
      {|                       |       |               |  1824
  201 {|Charles Mortgridge     |Christ.|1st Christ.    |----   ----
      {|                       |       |               |
  202  |James Lee              |Meth.  |Indep. Meth.   |----   ----
       |                       |       |  Afr.         |
  203  |Lyman Beecher, D. D.   |Cong.  |Bowdoin St.    |Yale,  1797

(To be concluded.)


  TABLE LEGEND:   (Part 2 of 2)
  A = _Order of Settlement._
  B = _Names of Ministers._
  F = _Settled._
  G = _Died or Resigned._

  -----+-----------------------+----------------------+--------------------
    A  |         B             |          F           |         G
  -----+-----------------------+----------------------+--------------------
   91  |David Annan            |Inst.             1783|Dism.           1786
   92 {|Claudius Florent       |Com.              1784|Left
      {| Bouchard de La Poterie|                      |
   93  |Peter Thacher          |Inst.   Jan.  12, 1785|Died  Dec.  16, 1802
   94  |Jeremy Belknap, D. D.  |Inst.   April  4, 1787|Died  June  20, 1798
   95  |William Montague       |Induct. June      1787|Left  May,      1790
   96  |Thomas Gair            |Inst.   April 23, 1788|Died  April 27, 1790
   97  |Samuel West, D. D.     |Inst.   March 12, 1789|Died  April 10, 1808
   98  |Louis de Rousselet     |                      |
   99  |John Thayer            |Com.    June  10, 1790|
  100  |Thomas Baldwin, D. D.  |Inst.   Nov.  11, 1790|Died  Aug.  29, 1825
  101  |Jesse Lee              |App.              1790|Left            1791
  102  |Daniel Smith           |App.              1791|Left            1792
  103 {|John Sylvester John    |Induct. April 22, 1792|Died  July  29, 1830
      {| Gardiner, D. D.       |                      |
  104  |William Walter, D. D.  |Induct. May   28, 1792|Died  Dec.   5, 1800
  105 {|Francis Anthony        |Com.    Aug.  20, 1792|      Sept. 19, 1818
      {| Matignon, D. D.       |                      |
  106  |Jeremiah Cosden        |App.              1792|Left            1793
  107  |Amos G. Thompson       |App.              1793|Left            1794
  108 {|John Thornton Kirkland,|Ord.    Feb.   5, 1794|Dism. Nov.   4, 1810
      {| D. D., LL.D.          |                      |
  109  |Christopher Spry       |App.              1794|Left            1795
  110  |Evan Rogers            |App.              1795|Left            1796
  111  |John Harper            |App.              1795|Left            1796
  112  |Joshua Hale            |App.              1796|Left            1797
  113  |George Pickering       |App.              1796|Left            1797
  114 {|John de Cheverus, D. D.|Com.    Oct.   3, 1796|Left  Sept. 26, 1823
      {|                       |                      |
      {|                       |                      |
  115  |Elias Hull             |App.              1797|Left            1798
  116  |Daniel Ostander        |App.              1797|Left            1798
  117  |William Beauchamp      |App.              1798|Left            1799
  118 {|John Snelling Popkin,  |Ord.    July  10, 1799|Dism. Nov.  28, 1802
      {| D. D.                 |                      |
  119  |William Emerson        |Inst.   Oct.  16, 1799|Died  May   12, 1811
  120  |Joshua Wells           |App.              1799|Left            1800
  121  |Thomas F. Sargent      |App.              1800|Left            1801
  122  |George Pickering       |App.              1801|Left            1802
  123  |Samuel Haskell         |Induct. May,      1801|Dism. Sept.     1803
  124  |Thomas Lyall           |App.              1802|Left            1804
  125 {|William Ellery         |Ord.    June   1, 1803|Died  Oct.   2, 1842
      {| Channing, D. D.       |                      |
  126  |Epaphras Kibby         |App.              1803|Left            1805
  127 {|Joseph Stephens        |Ord.    Jan.  30, 1805|Died  June   9, 1812
      {| Buckminster,          |                      |
  128  |Asa Eaton, D. D.       |Induct. Oct.  23, 1805|Dism. May,      1829
  129  |Peter Jayne            |App.              1805|Left            1807
  130  |Reuben Hubbard         |App.              1805|Left            1806
  131  |Charles Lowell, D. D.  |Ord.    Jan.   1, 1806|
  132  |Samuel Merwin          |App.              1806|Left            1807
  133  |Thomas Paul            |Ord.    Dec.   4, 1806|Died  April 13, 1831
  134  |Daniel Webb            |App.              1807|Left            1809
  135 {|Joseph Clay            |        Aug.  19, 1807|Dism. Oct.  27, 1811
      {|                       |                      |
  136  |Caleb Blood            |        Oct.   5, 1807|      June   5, 1810
  137  |Joshua Huntington      |Ord.    May   18, 1808|Died  Sept. 11, 1819
  138  |Martin Ruter, D. D.    |App.              1808|Left            1809
  139  |Elijah R. Sabin        |App.              1809|Left            1811
  140  |Phillip Munger         |App.              1809|Left            1810
  141  |Samuel Cary            |Induct. Jan.   1, 1809|Died  Oct.  22, 1815
  142  |Horace Holley, LL.D.   |Inst.   March  9, 1809|Dism. Aug.  24, 1818
  143  |Greenlief Norris       |App.              1810|Left            1811
  144  |Edward Mitchell        |Inst.   Sept. 12, 1810|Dism. Oct.   6, 1811
  145  |Samuel Cooper Thacher  |Ord.    May   15, 1811|Died  Jan.   2, 1818
  146  |Elijah Hedding, D. D.  |App.              1811|Left            1812
  147  |Erastus Otis           |App.              1811|Left            1812
  148 {|Edward Dorr Griffin,   |Inst.   July  31, 1811|Dism. April 27, 1815
      {| D. D.                 |                      |
  149  |Daniel Sharp, D. D.    |Ord.    April 29, 1812|
  150  |Paul Dean              |Inst.   Aug.  19, 1812|Dism. April  6, 1823
  151  |William Stephens       |App.              1812|Left            1813
  152  |William Hinman         |App.              1812|Left            1813
       |                       |                      |
  153  |John Lovejoy Abbot     |Ord.    July  14, 1813|Died  Oct.  17, 1814
  154  |Francis Parkman, D. D. |Ord.    Dec.   8, 1813|
  155  |Edward Everett, LL.D.  |Ord.    Feb.   9, 1814|Dism. March  5, 1815
  156  |Joseph A. Merrill      |App.              1814|Left            1815
       |                       |                      |
  157  |James Manning Winchell |Ord.    March 13, 1814|Died  Feb.  22, 1820
  158  |George Pickering       |App.              1814|Left            1815
       |                       |                      |
  159 {|Nathaniel Langdon      |Ord.    March 15, 1815|
      {| Frothingham, D. D.    |                      |
  160  |Daniel Filmore         |App.              1815|Left            1817
       |                       |                      |
  161  |Henry Ware, Jun., D. D.|Ord.    Jan.   1, 1817|Dism. Oct.   4, 1830
  162 {|Sereno Edwards Dwight, |Ord.    Sept.  3, 1817|Dism. April 10, 1826
      {| D. D.                 |                      |
  163  |Timothy Merritt        |App.              1817|Left            1818
  164  |Enoch Mudge            |App.              1817|Left            1819
  165  |Hosea Ballou           |Inst.   Dec.  25, 1817|
  166  |Phillip Larisey        |Com.    May,      1818|Left  June,     1821
  167 {|John Gorham Palfrey,   |Ord.    June  17, 1818|Dism. May   22, 1830
      {| D. D., LL.D.          |                      |
  168  |Samuel Snowden         |Inst.   Sept. 18, 1818|
  169 {|Francis William Pitt   |Ord.    Oct.  21, 1818|Dism. Dec.      1820
      {| Greenwood, D. D.      |                      |
  170 {|James Sabine           |Inst.   Jan.  27, 1819|Withdrew with }
      {|                       |                      |a majority of }
      {|                       |                      |the Ch.,      } 1822
      {|                       |                      |March 6.      }
      {|                       |                      |(See 187.)    }
  171  |John Pierpont          |Ord.    April 14, 1819|Dism. May   10, 1845
  172  |Benjamin R. Hoyt       |App.              1819|Left            1821
  173  |V. R. Osborn           |App.              1819|Left            1820
  174  |Simon Clough           |                  1819|Left            1824
  175  |Patrick Byrne.         |Com.    March 18, 1820|Left  July  11, 1830
       |  Assistant            |                      |
  176  |D. Kilburn             |App.    June,     1820|Left            1821
  177 {|Samuel Farmar Jarvis,  |Induct. July   7, 1820|Dism. Aug.  22, 1825
      {| D. D., LL.D.          |                      |
  178 {|Benjamin Blydenburg    |Ord.    Feb.  21, 1821|Dism. Nov.  12, 1832
      {| Wisner, D. D.         |                      |
  179  |William Taylor, D. D.  |        April,    1821|Left  Dec.  17, 1825
       |                       |       |  Cross       |           |
  180  |Shipley W. Willson     |App.    June,     1821|Left            1822
  181  |Ephraim Wiley          |App.    June,     1821|Left            1823
  182  |Francis Wayland, D. D. |Ord.    Aug.  22, 1821|Dism. Sept. 10, 1826
  183  |Elijah Hedding, D. D.  |App.    June,     1822|
  184  |Samuel Green           |Inst.   March 26, 1823|Dism. Mar.  26, 1834
  185  |Paul Dean              |        May    7, 1823|Dism. May    3, 1840
  186  |John Lindsey           |App.    June,     1823|Left            1824
  187 {|James Sabine           |Inst.   Nov.  26. 1823|Epis. June, 1829,
      {|                       |                      | (See 170.)
  188  |Prince Hawes           |Inst.   April 28, 1824|Dism. April 18, 1827
  189  |Sebastian Streeter     |        May   13, 1824|
  190  |Solomon Sias           |App.    June,     1824|Left            1825
  191  |Isaac Bonney           |App.    June,     1824|Left            1826
  192 {|Ezra Stiles Gannett,   |Ord.    June  30, 1824|
      {| D. D.                 |                      |
  193  |John Lauris Blake, D.D.|Induct. July  18, 1824|Left  June  24, 1832
  194 {|Francis William Pitt   |Induct. Aug.  29, 1824|Died  Aug.   2, 1843
      {| Greenwood, D. D.      |                      |
  195  |Alexander Young, D. D. |Ord.    Jan.  19, 1825|
  196  |Samuel Barrett         |Ord.    Feb.   9, 1825|
  197 {|Benedict Fenwick, D. D.|        May   10, 1825|Died  Aug.  11, 1846
      {|                       |                      |
  198  |Aaron D. Sargent       |App.    June,     1825|Left            1826
  199  |Timothy Merritt        |App.    June,     1825|Left            1827
  200 {|James Davis Knowles    |Ord.    Dec.  28, 1825|Dism. Oct.   7, 1832
      {|                       |                      |
  201 {|Charles Mortgridge     |Rec. as Pas.          |Left  Jan.   1, 1827
      {|                       |        Jan.   1, 1826|
  202  |James Lee              |Ord.    March 18, 1826|Left  ----      1828
       |                       |                      |
  203  |Lyman Beecher, D. D.   |Inst.   March 22, 1826|Dism. Sept. 26, 1832

(To be concluded.)




COMPLETE LIST OF CONGREGATIONAL MINISTERS IN THE EASTERN PART OF
ROCKINGHAM COUNTY, NEW HAMPSHIRE, FROM ITS SETTLEMENT TO THE PRESENT
TIME; TOGETHER WITH NOTES ON THE MINISTERS AND CHURCHES.

BY THE REV. JONATHAN FRENCH OF NORTH HAMPTON.

(Continued from page 157.)


     (Part 1 of 2)
  ------------------+--------------------+------------------+-------------
       _Towns._     |    _Ministers._    | _Native Place._  |   _Born._
                    |                    |                  |
  ------------------+--------------------+------------------+-------------
  Exeter           }|Daniel Rogers       |Ipswich, Ms.      |         1707
  A New Church was }|Joseph Brown        |Chester, England  |Feb.  8, 1762
   formed in 1744. }|                    |                  |
  A New Church was  |Isaac Hurd          |Charlestown, Ms.  |Dec.  7, 1785
   formed in 1813.  |                    |                  |
  Gosport           |Joseph Hull, s.s.   |England           |
                    |John Brock, s.s.    |Shadbrook, Eng.   |         1620
                    |Samuel Belcher, s.s.|Ipswich, Ms.      |
                    |John Tucke          |Hampton           |Aug. 23, 1702
                    |Josiah Stevens, s.s.|Killingworth, Ct. |         1740
                    |Samuel Sewall, s.s. |Bath, Me.         |
                    |Origen Smith, s.s.  |                  |
                    |A. Plumer, s.s.     |                  |
  Greenland         |William Allen       |Boston, Ms.       |         1676
                    |Samuel Macclintock, |Medford, Ms.      |May   1, 1732
                    | D.D.               |                  |
                    |James A. Neal       |Londonderry, N. H.|         1774
                    |Ephraim Abbot       |New Castle, Me.   |         1779
                    |Samuel W. Clark     |Hancock, N. H.    |Dec. 15, 1795


     (Part 2 of 2)
  --------------------+------------+---------------+-----------------
     _Ministers._     |_Graduated._|  _Settled._   |   _Dismissed_
                      |            |               |    _or died._
  --------------------+------------+---------------+-----------------
  Daniel Rogers       |Harv., 1725 |Aug.  31, 1748 |d. Dec.   9, 1785
  Joseph Brown        |            |          1792 |dism.        1797
                      |            |               |
  Isaac Hurd          |Harv., 1806 |Sept. 11, 1817 |
                      |            |               |
  Joseph Hull, s.s.   |            |               |
  John Brock, s.s.    |Harv., 1646 |               |d. June  18, 1668
  Samuel Belcher, s.s.|Harv., 1659 |               |
  John Tucke          |Harv., 1723 |July  26, 1732 |   Aug.  12, 1773
  Josiah Stevens, s.s.|            |               |   July   2, 1804
  Samuel Sewall, s.s. |            |               |   March 16, 1826
  Origen Smith, s.s.  |            |               |
  A. Plumer, s.s.     |            |               |
  William Allen       |Harv., 1703 |July  15, 1707 |   Sept.  8, 1760
  Samuel Macclintock, |Coll. N. J.,|Nov.   3, 1756 |   April 27, 1804
   D.D.               |       1751 |               |
  James A. Neal       |----   ---- |May   22, 1807 |   July  18, 1808
  Ephraim Abbot       |Harv., 1806 |Oct.  27, 1813 |   Oct.  28, 1828
  Samuel W. Clark     |Dart., 1823 |Aug.   5, 1829 |


NOTES.

  EXETER. _"Exeter New Church," afterwards called "The Second
  Church of Christ in Exeter."_[19] A considerable number of the
  members of the First Church seceded, and "embodied into a New
  Church, on a day of Fasting and Prayer, June 7, 1744." There is
  an error in several publications, giving 1748 as the date of the
  formation of that church. This error is found on the monumental
  stone of Rev. Daniel Rogers, in the graveyard, in Exeter. It is
  not strange that, in so long an inscription, there should have
  been, through inadvertency, an omission, by the engraver, or in
  his copy, of the word _installed_, immediately after the name.
  The words, _Pastor of a church gathered in Exeter_, should have
  been marked by a parenthesis. The inscription on the gravestone
  was copied by Alden, into his Collections, and thus currency has
  been, unintentionally, given to the error. Original documents
  show the facts in the case.

  The causes of the _secession_, which issued in the establishment
  of a New Church in Exeter, were of a religious nature, but the
  presentation of them does not come within the scope of this work,
  and besides, we have not space for their discussion.

  The _Rev. Daniel Rogers_ was born in Ipswich, Ms., in 1707, and
  graduated H. C. 1725. He received ordination, without a pastoral
  charge, by a council, which met at York, July 13, 1742. The
  ministers of the council were Rev. Messrs. Jeremiah Wise of
  Berwick, Me.; Nicholas Gilman of Durham, N. H.; John Rogers of
  Kittery, (now Eliot,) Me.; and Samuel Moody of York, Me. Rev.
  Daniel Rogers "had been many years a tutor in Harvard College,
  was a pious faithful minister of Jesus Christ, and a worthy son
  of Rev. John Rogers, pastor of the first church in Ipswich, who
  died, Dec. 28, 1745, in his 80th year. _He_ was a son of John
  Rogers of the same place, a physician, and preacher of God's
  word, and President of Harvard College, who died, July 2, 1684,
  aged 54 years. _He_ was eldest son of the Rev. Nathaniel Rogers,
  who came from England, in 1636, settled at Ipswich, colleague
  pastor with the Rev. Nathaniel Ward, and died, July 2, 1655, aged
  57 years. _He_ was son of the Rev. John Rogers, a famous minister
  of God's word at Dedham, in England, who died Oct. 18, 1639, aged
  67 years. _He_ was grandson of John Rogers of London, Prebendary
  of St Paul's, Vicar of St. Sepulchre's, and Reader of Divinity,
  who was burnt at Smithfield, Feb. 14, 1555, first martyr in Queen
  Mary's reign." [_Monumental Stone; Alden's Epitaphs._] Rev.
  Daniel Rogers died, Dec. 9, 1785, aged 79. When the Covenant of
  the 2nd church was adopted, it was signed by 30 males and 11
  females. During Mr. Rogers' ministry, 22 males and 39 females
  were added. It is well known, that Mr. Whitefield preached a few
  times at Exeter. During the last week in September, 1770, he
  preached four times in Portsmouth. On Saturday morning he rode to
  Exeter, and preached to a large concourse of people, assembled
  in the open air. It was his last sermon. In the afternoon, he
  rode to Newburyport, where he died the next morning, on the 30th
  of September. He was interred on the 2nd of October. Of his
  pall bearers were Rev. Dr. Haven of Portsmouth, and Rev. Daniel
  Rogers of Exeter. "When the corpse was placed at the foot of the
  pulpit close to the vault, the Rev. Daniel Rogers made a very
  affecting prayer, and openly confessed that under God, he owed
  his conversion to that man of God whose precious remains now lay
  before them. Then he cried out, O my father, my father! Then
  stopped and wept, as though his heart would break; and the people
  weeping all through the place. Then he recovered, and finished
  his prayer and sat down and wept." [_Dr. Gillie's Memoirs of
  Whitefield._]

  The _Rev. Joseph Brown_ was educated at Lady Huntingdon's
  Seminary, and was settled in the ministry at Epping, Essex,
  England, until he came to this country. When dismissed at Exeter,
  he removed to Deer Isle, Me., where he was installed, 1804, and
  where he died, Sept. 13, 1819, aged 57. From the death of Mr.
  Rogers to the close of Mr. Brown's ministry, in the 2nd church in
  Exeter, there were added fourteen males, and twenty-four females.
  During Mr. Brown's residence at Deer Isle, he was engaged in
  soliciting aid for some charitable enterprise. For that purpose
  he called on some of the people of Portsmouth. They received
  him kindly, and only objected that they had just been doing for
  _this_,--_that_,--and _the other_ objects of benevolence. His
  reply is worthy of notice for the sentiment it contains: "I love
  to come among these _have been doing_ folks." On the church
  book are the baptisms of his son Americus, in 1793; his son
  Charles Moulson, in 1794; and his son Daniel Rogers, in 1797.
  Rev. Charles M. Brown has been a zealous and useful Seamen's
  Chaplain. From the close of Mr. Brown's ministry, in the 2nd
  church in Exeter, to 1802, there were admitted three males, and
  nine females. There is then a chasm in the records, till Sept.
  18, 1823, when a majority of the members remaining in Exeter,
  and they females, met at the house of Mrs. Martha Poor. Their
  proceedings are regularly entered in the church book, the last
  date being May 22, 1824.

  They had no pastor after Mr. Brown. For a few years they had
  occasional preaching. They never formally disbanded; but most
  of them united, or mingled in the observance of religious
  ordinances, with other churches. Their meeting-house stood where
  Maj. Waddy V. Cobb's house now stands, on Front street.

  _A New Church was formed Dec. 24, 1813_, which is now styled
  "_The Second Church in Exeter_." The ministers invited on
  the occasion by Letters Missive from "several members of the
  Religious Society, in the Upper Congregational Society in
  Exeter," were the Rev. Messrs. Porter of Rye, Holt of Epping,
  Abbot of Hampton Falls, Webster of Hampton, and French of North
  Hampton.

  Mr. Hosea Hildreth, professor of mathematics and natural
  philosophy, in the Academy, and who was also a preacher,
  supplied the pulpit for some time. Mr. Hildreth was ordained in
  Gloucester, Ms., in 1825; and installed in Westborough, Ms., in
  1834. He died in Sterling, Ms., his native place, July 10, 1835,
  aged 53.

  _Rev. Isaac Hurd_, pastor of the present Second Church, was born
  in Charlestown, Ms., Dec. 7, 1785; graduated H. C. 1806; studied
  theology with Rev. Dr. Osgood of Medford, Ms.; and afterwards at
  Divinity Hall, in Edinburgh, Scotland; and commenced preaching in
  the city of London. He was ordained pastor of the First Church
  in Lynn, Ms., Sept. 15, 1813, resigned May 22, 1816, and was, by
  the unanimous invitation of "The Second Congregational Church, in
  Exeter," installed their pastor, Sept. 11, 1817. The sermon was
  preached by the Rev. Daniel Dana, D. D., of Newburyport, from 2
  Tim. i: 7.

  The father of Mr. Hurd was Joseph Hurd, Esq., of Charlestown,
  Ms., whose brother, Isaac Hurd, M. D., graduated at H. C. in
  1776, and was a physician of celebrity, in Concord, Ms. The Rev.
  Mr. Hurd married, March 16, 1819, Mrs. Elisabeth Emery of Exeter,
  whose maiden name was Folsom. One of the sons of Mr. Hurd died in
  early childhood. His other son, Francis Parkman Hurd, graduated
  at H. C. in 1839, and received the degree of M. D. from the
  University of Pennsylvania, in 1845.

  GOSPORT, or Star Island, is one of a cluster of eight small
  islands usually called The Isles of Shoals, composed of beds of
  rocks, partly covered with soil. They are about nine miles from
  Portsmouth Light House, and twenty-one from Newburyport Lights.
  Five of these islands are within the limits of Maine. Of these,
  Hog Island is the largest of the whole group, and contains about
  350 acres. Of the three in New Hampshire, Gosport, or Star
  Island, formerly called Appledore, is the largest, and contains
  150 acres. White Island, on which the Light House is located,
  is only one acre. These islands were visited, as early as 1614,
  by the celebrated navigator, John Smith, who gave them his own
  name; but they have long been called "The Isles of Shoals." They
  invited settlement, merely by the advantages they furnished for
  fishery. This business was prosperous, for about a century,
  previous to the American Revolution. The population varied from
  300 to 600, employing a number of schooners and other craft. A
  meeting-house, previous to 1641, was erected on Hog Island, where
  the people from the several islands used to assemble. There was
  also a Court House on the same island. At a subsequent period, a
  meeting-house was built on Star Island, where the greater part of
  the inhabitants have resided.

  _Rev. Joseph Hull_ came from England, and settled in Weymouth,
  Ms., in 1635. He resigned in 1639, and afterwards preached at the
  Isles of Shoals. He is mentioned as "of the Isle of Sholes," by
  Dr. Cotton Mather, in his list of the first class of New England
  ministers. [_Magnalia_, Vol. I., B. 3.]

  _Rev. John Brock_ came to New England in 1637. He commenced
  preaching in Rowley, and afterward labored, a number of years,
  at the Shoals. He was esteemed eminently pious. The celebrated
  Mr. Mitchel of Cambridge said of him, "He dwells as near heaven
  as any man upon earth." Rev. John Allin of Dedham observed, "I
  scarce ever knew any man so familiar with the great God as his
  dear servant Brock." There were several remarkable coincidences
  between Mr. Brock's prayers and providential occurrences
  afterward. A man, whose principal property was his fishing-boat,
  and who had been very serviceable in conveying to the place of
  meeting the inhabitants of other islands, lost his boat in a
  storm. He lamented his loss to Mr. Brock, who said to him, "Go
  home, honest man, I'll mention the matter to the Lord, you'll
  have your boat to-morrow." Mr. Brock made the matter a subject
  of prayer. The next day the anchor of a vessel fastened upon the
  boat and drew it up.

  The people were persuaded by Mr. Brock to observe one day in
  each month, as an extra season of religious exercises. On one
  occasion, the roughness of the weather had for several days
  prevented fishing. On the day of meeting, the weather was fine,
  and the men wished the meeting put by. Mr. Brock, perceiving that
  they were determined not to attend, said to them, _If you will
  go away, I say unto you, catch fish if you can. But as for you
  that will tarry and worship the Lord Jesus Christ this day, I
  will pray unto him for you, that you may take fish till you are
  weary._ Thirty men went away, and five tarried. The thirty caught
  but four fishes. The five, who tarried, went out afterward and
  took about five hundred.

  Mr. Brock continued at the Shoals till 1662, when he removed to
  Reading, Ms., where he was settled, as successor of Rev. Samuel
  Hough, whose widow he married, and where he continued till his
  death, in his 68th year. For other particulars of Mr. Brock see
  Magnalia, Vol. II., B. 4, and Am. Quar. Reg., Vol. VIII., p. 140,
  and Vol. XI., pp. 176, 190.

  _Rev. Samuel Belcher_, who graduated H. C. in 1659, was preacher
  at the Shoals in 1672. From 1698 to 1711, he was pastor of the
  2nd church in Newbury, which became the 1st in West Newbury. He
  died in Ipswich, his native place, Aug. 13, 1714, aged 74. "He
  was a good scholar, a judicious divine; and a holy, humble man."
  [_Am. Quar. Reg._, Vol. VII., p. 259.]

  _Rev. John Tucke_ is understood to have been the only pastor
  ever ordained at the Shoals. The writer of this article has not
  been able to ascertain how the people were supplied, during the
  forty years immediately preceding the settlement of Mr. Tucke.
  Mr. Tucke was the son of _John_, who was the son of _Edward_, who
  was the son of _Robert_, who emigrated from Gorlston, Suffolk,
  Eng., about the year 1636, and was among the first settlers in
  Hampton, N. H. Mr. Tucke's ordination sermon was preached by Rev.
  Jabez Fitch of Portsmouth, from Matt. iv: 19--_I will make you
  fishers of men._ It is said that Mr. Tucke was furnished with a
  large library, and was, notwithstanding his isolated situation,
  extensively acquainted with the affairs of his times. He was one
  of the forty-five ministers, whose attestations, by letter, to
  the revival in 1743, were published. His remains rest in Gosport.
  The following inscription on his monumental stone, has been
  considered a just tribute to his memory.

      Underneath
      are the remains of the
      Rev. John Tuck, A. M.
      He graduated at Harvard
      College A. D. 1723--was ordained
      here July 26. 1732
      and died August 12. 1773.
      Æ. 72.
      He was affable and polite in his manners;
      amiable in his disposition;
      of great Piety and Integrity;
      given to hospitality;
      Diligent and faithful in his pastoral
      office, well learned in History and
      Geography, as well as general
      Science, and a careful Physician
      both to the bodies and
      The souls of
      his people.

  Mr. Tucke married, Nov. 26, 1724, Mary Dole of Hampton, a
  descendant of Richard Dole of Newbury.

  Rev. John Tucke, son of Mr. Tucke of the Shoals, was born in
  1740, graduated H. C. 1758; ordained at Epsom, Sept. 23, 1761,
  married, March 4, 1762, to Mary, daughter of Rev. Samuel Parsons
  of Rye. Love M., daughter of Mr. Tucke of Epsom, married Simeon
  Drake. These last mentioned were the parents of Samuel G. Drake,
  M. A., of Boston. Mr. Tucke of Epsom remained in that place till
  the time of the Revolution. While on his way to join the army as
  Chaplain, he was taken with the small-pox, of which he died in
  Salem, N. Y., Feb. 9, 1777, in the 37th year of his age.

  Not long after the death of the Rev. Mr. Tucke of Gosport, the
  war of the Revolution commenced. The inhabitants were exceedingly
  exposed; business was arrested, and many left the Islands not
  to return. The population for the last half century, has varied
  from 66 to 103. The preachers who have resided there have also
  instructed the school, and have been supported in part, by
  the inhabitants, and in part by contributions from benevolent
  societies, and individuals. Near the beginning of the present
  century, _Rev. Josiah Stevens_ was located at the Shoals. There
  was at that time, a comfortable parsonage house, and a stone
  meeting-house, which was also the school-house, on Gosport. Mr.
  Stevens was much respected and beloved, and very useful as a
  minister and teacher. He was born in Killingworth, Ct., about
  1740. In mature age, he removed, with his wife and five or six
  children, to Newport, N. H. He aided in founding the church in
  that place, and was one of its deacons. He served two short terms
  in the Revolutionary war; and was in the battle of Bennington.
  A fellow-soldier spake of him, as a man of decided piety, who
  amidst the bustle of the camp, was constant in his morning and
  evening devotions. Immediately after the adoption of the State
  Constitution, he received a civil commission, and transacted much
  business, as a magistrate. He was often engaged in teaching.
  After commencing to preach, he labored for a time in Goshen. His
  father was Josiah Stevens. A son of Rev. Mr. Stevens, Maj. Josiah
  Stevens, was also a deacon of the church in Newport, where he
  died, in 1844, aged 81. _He_ was father of Hon. Josiah Stevens of
  Concord, who was born in Newport, Jan. 28, 1795, and was in 1838
  elected Secretary of State. _His_ eldest son is Josiah. The Rev.
  Mr. Stevens died in Gosport, where the following inscription is
  found on his gravestone:

  In memory of the Rev. Josiah Stevens, a faithful instructor of
  youth, and pious minister of Jesus Christ, (supported on this
  Island, by the Society for propagating the gospel,) who died,
  July 2, 1804, aged 64 years.

  _Rev. Samuel Sewall_, who labored several years as pastor in
  Edgecomb, Me., removed in 1824 to the Isles of Shoals, "being
  employed by a benevolent society in Newburyport and vicinity, as
  a missionary, and continued in this employment until the time
  of his death." He died in Rye, N. H., after a short sickness,
  March 16, 1826, leaving the character of an exemplary Christian,
  and a devoted and useful minister. _Rev. Origen Smith_, of the
  Free-will Baptist denomination, preached there in 1837. Recently,
  the Society for Propagating the Gospel have employed _Rev. A.
  Plumer_ as preacher, and Mrs. Plumer, as teacher.

  GREENLAND. It is not ascertained when the church was gathered
  at Greenland. It consisted of nineteen members when the _Rev.
  William Allen_, their first minister, was ordained. He was born
  in Boston, Ms., in 1676, graduated H. C. in 1703; ordained July
  15, 1707; died, Sept. 8, 1760, aged 84. Rev. Dr. Langdon, in his
  sermon at the ordination of Mr. Macclintock, as colleague, said
  to the people. "Let not your affections be withdrawn from _him_,
  who has spent his strength in your service; and now, bowing
  under his infirmities, is no longer able to perform his public
  work; but is preparing to leave _you_, that he may join the
  church triumphant. Remember he is still your pastor; and, tho'
  he cannot minister to you as formerly, he is still concerned for
  your spiritual welfare, pouring out his soul the more earnestly
  in prayer for you, as he sees the time of his departure is at
  hand." During Mr. Allen's ministry 293 were added to the church.
  In 1728, forty-four were added; in 1735, thirty; in 1742, thirty;
  in 1756, the last year of his active ministry, thirteen. Mrs.
  Eleanor Allen, his consort, died Jan. 16, 1734-5, aged 52; "an
  early convert, eminent for holiness, prayerfulness, watchfulness,
  zeal, prudence, weanedness from the world, self-denial,
  faithfulness, and charity." Mr. Allen is said to have married,
  for his second wife, Elisabeth Weare of Hampton Falls.

  _Rev. Samuel Macclintock, D. D._, second pastor, was a son of
  Mr. William Macclintock, who came from the north of Ireland, and
  settled in Medford, Ms.; was a respectable farmer, the husband
  of four wives, the father of nineteen children, and died aged
  90. His third wife accompanied him to this country. She was
  the mother of Samuel, who was born at Medford, May 1, 1732. He
  was religiously educated, from early childhood. His classical
  education, which commenced in the grammar-school, at Medford,
  was continued under the instruction of the celebrated Master
  Minot, at Concord, Ms.; and, afterward, under the preceptorship
  of the Rev. Mr. Abercrombie, a clergyman, eminent for piety and
  learning, in an Academy, near Northampton, Ms. Mr. Macclintock
  graduated at the College of New Jersey, 1751. Before the
  expiration of his senior year, he was invited, by Pres. Burr,
  to accept an appointment to a tutorship, which, on account of
  other plans, he declined. He was ordained at Greenland, colleague
  with Mr. Allen, Nov. 3, 1756. The strain of Dr. Macclintock's
  preaching was evangelical, serious, instructive, plain, and
  practical; his style manly and nervous; his delivery solemn
  and unaffected. His sermons were always the fruit of close
  application, and finished with a degree of accuracy, that few
  attempt, and fewer attain.

  He ardently espoused the cause of his country; and was repeatedly
  with the army in the Revolution, in the capacity of Chaplain.
  Three of his sons fell in the contest. He had fifteen children by
  his first marriage, and one by his second. His last preaching was
  on the annual Fast, April 19, 1804. He died of a pulmonic fever
  on the 27th of the same month. His funeral sermon was preached
  by Rev. Dr. Buckminster of Portsmouth, from 1 Cor. iii: 22. The
  executor of Dr. Macclintock's will was directed by him, to place
  only a plain stone at his grave, for which he had prepared the
  last sentence of the following inscription.

  "To the Memory of Samuel Macclintock, D. D. who died April 27,
  1804, in the 72d year of his age, and the 48th of his ministry.
  _His body rests here in the certain hope of a resurrection to
  life and immortality, when Christ shall appear, the second time,
  to consummate the great design of his mediatorial kingdom._"
  [_Alden's Epitaphs; Dr. Buckminster's Serm._]

  Dr. Macclintock's publications were, a Sermon on the Justice
  of God in the Mortality of Man, 1759; the Artifices of
  Deceivers, 1770; Herodias, or cruelty and revenge the effects
  of unlawful pleasure, 1772; Sermon at the commencement of the
  new Constitution in New Hampshire, 1784; Correspondence with
  Rev. John Cosens Ogden, 1791; Sermon, The Choice, occasioned by
  the drought, the fever, and the prospect of war, 1798; Oration,
  commemorative of Washington, 1800. [_Allen's Biog. Dic.;
  Piscataqua Evan. Mag._ Vol. I.]

  _Rev. James Armstrong Neal_, third pastor in Greenland, was a
  son of John Neal of Portsmouth, afterward of Londonderry, who
  married Mary Leavitt of North Hampton. Their other children were
  Moses Leavitt, Esq., of Dover, N. H.; John, superintendent of
  the Orphan house, Charleston, S. C.; Mary, wife of Maj. Gershom
  Cheney, of Rutland, Vt.; Sarah B.; Sophia W., who married Capt.
  Samuel F. Leavitt of North Hampton; Joseph, of Hampton; and
  Nathaniel P., of New Sharon, Me. Rev. Mr. Neal was born in 1774.
  He had a good academical education, and was some years preceptor
  of a young ladies' school, in Philadelphia. He was patronized
  by Rev. Dr. Green, to whose church he belonged, and under whose
  direction he commenced his theological studies. Although he
  had not been a member of any college, such were his literary
  attainments, that Dr. Nesbit, President of Dickinson College,
  conferred upon him the degree of M. A. in 1802. Mr. Neal received
  license from the Piscataqua Association. He was ordained at
  Greenland, May 22, 1807. The exercises were, Prayer by Rev.
  Peter Holt of Epping; Sermon by Rev. Jesse Appleton of Hampton,
  from Hag. ii: 6, 7; Ordaining Prayer by Rev. William Morrison
  of Londonderry; Charge by Rev. Timothy Upham of Deerfield;
  Fellowship by Rev. J. French of North Hampton; Prayer by Rev.
  H. Porter of Rye. Mr. Neal possessed popular talents, and died
  much regretted, after suffering greatly, from an organic disease
  of the heart, July 18, 1808, aged 34. He married Christiana
  Palmer, a lady from Kelso, Scotland. They had two sons. The
  oldest, John P., died Nov. 14, 1806, aged 2 years. Their other
  son, Joseph Clay Neal, has resided in Philadelphia, and is known
  to the public, as the editor of the Philadelphian; author of
  the Charcoal Sketches. [_Piscat. Ev. Mag._; _Alden's Epitaphs_;
  _Graham's Mag._]

  _Rev. Ephraim Abbot_, fourth pastor in Greenland, was of the
  Concord branch of the Abbot family. He was born in New Castle,
  Me., in 1779. His father was Benjamin, who was son of Benjamin
  of Concord, who was son of Thomas, who was son of George, who
  settled in Andover, Ms., in 1647, and who is said to have
  emigrated from Yorkshire, England. Rev. Mr. Abbot of Greenland
  graduated H. C. 1806, and at And. Theo. Sem. 1810, and was
  ordained at Greenland, Oct. 27, 1813. The sermon was by Rev.
  Eliphalet Pearson, LL. D., from Matt. x: 16. Mr. Abbot married
  Mary Holyoke, daughter of Dr. Pearson, who, after he resigned
  his professorship in the And. Theo. Sem., resided in Mr. Abbot's
  family, in Greenland, where he deceased, in 1826. For some
  account of Mr. Abbot's missionary labors, before he was settled
  at Greenland, see "The New Hampshire Repository," Vol. II., No. 2.

  Mr. Abbot's health becoming infirm, in consequence of a wound in
  his side, and not being able to confine himself entirely to the
  labors of a pastor, he became the first preceptor of the Academy
  in the place, established by George Bracket, Esq. He resigned
  his ministry, Oct. 28, 1828. The _church_, at his ordination,
  consisted of nineteen members. During his ministry thirty-seven
  were added. He removed to Westford, Ms., and took charge of
  the Academy in that place. His second marriage was with Miss
  Bancroft, daughter of Amos Bancroft, M. D., of Groton, Ms.

  _Rev. Samuel Wallace Clark_ was born in Hancock, N. H., Dec.
  15, 1795, graduated D. C. 1823; ordained at Greenland, Aug. 5,
  1829. His father, John Clark, was grandson of Robert Clark, who
  emigrated from the north of Ireland to Londonderry, N. H., in
  company with the early settlers of that place; though not among
  the first. Rev. S. W. Clark was the second of ten children, and
  the eldest of four sons. His brother, Rev. William Clark, was
  several years pastor of the 1st church in Wells, Me., and has
  since been extensively known, in his agency for the A. B. C. F.
  M. Rev. Mr. Clark of Greenland married Frances M., daughter of
  Dea. Robert Clark, for many years an elder of the Presbyterian
  church, in New Boston. She deceased July 12, 1832, leaving one
  child, Frances Wallace. Mr. Clark's second marriage was with
  Rebecca Elisabeth Howe, a descendant of the Pilgrim, John Alden.
  She is a daughter of Josiah Howe, M. D., of Templeton, and
  afterwards of Westminster, Ms. The children of Mr. Clark, by
  the second marriage, were John Howe, Lucy Barrow, and William
  Wallace; the last of whom deceased Aug. 19, 1846.

  When Mr. Clark was ordained, his church consisted of twenty-eight
  members. In 1846, there were forty communicants.




GENEALOGIES.




THE WOLCOTT FAMILY.


INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.

HENRY WOLCOTT was the first of the Wolcott Family who settled in
New England. He owned a considerable landed property in his native
country, which he held _in capite_, part of which he sold about the
time he left England; the rest of the estate was sold at sundry
times by himself and his descendants; the last remains were sold
since the Declaration of Independence, by Henry Allen, Esq., of
Windsor, who claimed it by female descent. From circumstances it
seems probable that the family are of Saxon origin. Mr. Wolcott, to
avoid the ecclesiastical hierarchy of the English Church, was induced
to come into this country. He first settled at Dorchester, where he
continued till 1636, when he came with the first settlers to the town
of Windsor, and with four other gentlemen, namely, Mr. Ludlow, Mr.
Newberry, Mr. Stoughton, and Major Mason, undertook the settlement
of that town, to which they gave the name _Dorchester_. The towns
of Hartford and Wethersfield were settled the same year, though the
town which is now called Windsor was, upon the first emigration, by
far the most considerable. Previous to this settlement on Connecticut
River, one had been made at Springfield, under the patronage of Mr.
Pynchon; and an earlier settlement, with commercial views, had been
made at Saybrook, by Mr. Fenwick, agent to Lords Say and Seal and
Brook. Those who settled on Connecticut River, in the year 1636,
were united with the people of Massachusetts in religious and civil
polity, and seem to have been much under their influence till 1638,
when they adopted a civil constitution for themselves, and Mr. Ludlow
was chosen their first Governor, and Mr. Wolcott a magistrate, then
called an Assistant, to which office he was annually chosen till his
death, in 1655. His eldest son Henry was one of the Patentees, whose
name is inserted in the Charter granted by Charles II. Mr. Ludlow
went to the West Indies, and left no posterity in this country. Major
Mason, it is said, had no male posterity. The descendants of the
others are well known in Windsor.


GENEALOGY.

Henry Wolcott, Esq., was born A. D. 1578; and on or about the year
1607, married Elisabeth Sanders, who was born in 1589. He lived in
Tolland, near Taunton in Somersetshire, England, till the year 1630,
and then to avoid persecution, came with his family into New England,
and settled at Dorchester. In the year 1636, he went with his family
to Windsor in Connecticut. Mr. Wolcott, Mr. Ludlow, Mr. Newberry,
Mr. Stoughton, and Major Mason, were the five gentlemen that
undertook the settling of the town. Mr. Wolcott was one of the first
magistrates in the Colony of Connecticut; he lived in that post in
Windsor, till he died, May 30, 1655. His wife died July 7, 1655, and
she and her husband lie buried in one tomb in Windsor. Their children
were

  1. Anna, who m. Matthew Griswold and d. at Lyme. 2. Henry
  Wolcott, Esq., b. 1610, d. at Windsor, July 12, 1680. 3. George,
  who d. at Wethersfield, Feb. 12, 1663. 4. Christopher, who d. in
  Windsor, Sept. 7, 1662. 5. Mary, m. Job Drake, and d. in Windsor,
  Sept. 6, 1689. 6. Simon, b. 1625, d. in Windsor, Sept. 11, 1687;
  his wife d. Oct. 13, 1719.

The children of Henry, son of Henry, by his wife, Sarah Newberry, were

  1. Henry, b. Jan. 6, 1643, d. in Windsor. 2. John, b. Feb. 28,
  1646, d. in Windsor, Jan. 11, 1712. 3. Samuel, b. Oct. 8, 1647,
  d. June 14, 1695. 4. Sarah, b. July 5, 1649, m. Walter Price and
  d. at Salem. 5. Mary, b. Dec. 8, 1651, m. James Russell, Esq.,
  and d. at Charlestown. 6. Hannah, b. March 8, 1654, d. Sept. 4,
  1683. 7. Josiah, b. July 22, 1658, d. at Salem, Feb. 9, 1729.

The children of Henry, son of Henry, son of Henry, by his wife
Abigail Goss, were

  1. Elisabeth, m. Matthew Allyn, Esq., Windsor. 2. Abiah. 3.
  Henry. 4. Sarah, m. Charles Chancey, d. at Stratfield. 5. Samuel,
  d. 1707.

The children of John, son of Henry, son of Henry, by his wife, Mary
Chester, were

  1. John, d. 1750. 2. Charles. 3. George. 4. Benjamin. 5. Mary, m.
  John Elliot, Esq.

The children of John, son of John, son of Henry, son of Henry, by his
wife, Hannah Newberry, were

  1. Mary, b. Sept., 1704. 2. Hannah, m. Uriah Loomis of Windsor.
  3. John, m. Mary Hawley. 4. Anne, b. Dec. 10, 1711. 5. Abigail,
  b. Sept., 1717. 6. Jerusha, b. Jan. 18, 1719, m. Erastus Wolcott,
  Esq.

The children of John, son of John, son of John, son of Henry, son of
Henry, by Mary Hawley, were

  1. Mary, b. Dec. 9, 1736, m. Abiel Grant. 2. Lorana, b. June 5,
  1739, m. Jonathan Bement. 3. Hope, b. Dec. 29, 1742, m. Nathaniel
  Drake. 4. Benjamin, b. Oct. 26, 1744. 5. Anne, b. March 6, 1747,
  m. ---- Vansant.

The children of Benjamin, the son of John, son of John, son of John,
the son of Henry, the son of Henry, by Abigail Pinney, were

  1. Miriam, b. Aug. 26, 1766, d. May 29, 1773. 2. Caroline, b.
  Aug. 29, 1769. 3. Eleanor, b. Dec. 18, 1770, d. Oct. 18, 1776.
  4. Talcot, b. Oct. 1, 1772. 5. Chester, b. Jan. 23, 1775. 6.
  Eleanor, b. Nov. 2, 1776. 7. Benjamin, b. Dec. 15, 1778. 8.
  Clarissa, b. June 16, 1781. 9. James, b. June 23, 1784. 10. John,
  b. July 23, 1786, d. May 21, 1787.

The children of Charles, the son of John, son of Henry, son of Henry,
were

  1. Sarah. 2. Elisabeth. 3. George. 4. Mary, m. Jonathan North. 5.
  Eunice, m. Benoni Olcott.

The children of Samuel, son of Henry, son of Henry, were

  1. Samuel, b. 1679, d. at Wethersfield, Sept., 1734. 2. Josiah,
  b. Feb., 1682, d. Oct. 8, 1712. 3. Hannah, b. March 19. 1684. m.
  William Burnham. 4. Sarah, b. Aug. 14, 1686. 5. Lucy, b. Oct.
  16, 1688. 6. Abigail, b. Sept. 23, 1690, d. Sept. 9, 1714. 7.
  Elisabeth, b. May 31, 1692. 8. Mary, b. May 14, 1694.

The children of Samuel, son of Samuel, son of Henry, son of Henry,
were

  1. Abigail, b. June 3, 1707. 2. Oliver, b. Oct. 2, 1709, d. 1734.
  3. Samuel, b. April 13, 1713. 4. Mehetabel, Aug. 12, 1715. 5.
  Elisha, b. Sept. 26, 1717. 6. Josiah, b. March 26, 1720.

The children of Josiah, son of Henry, son of Henry, were, by Penelope
Curwin, his wife,

  1. Elisabeth, b. March 30, 1688, d. July 12, 1702;

by Mrs. Mary Treat,

  2. Josiah, b. Dec. 21, 1690, d. Jan. 4, 1691. 3. Treat, b. March
  26, 1696, d. July 7, 1696. 4. Thomas, b. June 23, 1697, d. Sept.
  13, 1697. 5. Mehetabel, b. Aug. 3, 1698, d. July 6, 1721. 6.
  Josiah, b. July 11, 1700, d. July 31, 1700. 7. John, b. Sept. 12,
  1702. 8. Elisabeth, b. April 1, 1705, d. June 24, 1716. 9. Mary,
  b. July 13, 1706, d. July 29, 1706. 10. Treat, b. Oct. 9, 1712.

The children of John, son of Josiah, son of Henry, son of Henry, were

  1. John, b. Nov. 2, 1721, d. Nov. 27, 1731.

The children of George, son of Henry, were

  1. George. 2. Elisabeth. 3. John. 4. Mercy.

The children of Simon, son of Henry, by Martha Pitkin, his wife, were

  1. Elisabeth, b. Aug. 19, 1662, m. Daniel Cooley, d. Jan. 30,
  1707. 2. Martha, b. May 17, 1664, m. Thomas Allyn, d. Sept. 7,
  1687. 3. Simon, b. June 24, 1666, d. Oct. 30, 1732. 4. Joanna,
  b. June 30, 1668, m. John Cotton. 5. Henry, b. May 20, 1670, d.
  Nov., 1746. 6. Christopher, b. July 4, 1672, d. April 3, 1693. 7.
  Mary, b. 1674, d. 1676. 8. William, b. Nov. 6, 1676, d. Jan. 6,
  1749. 9. Roger, b. Jan. 4, 1679, Governor of Connecticut, d. May
  17, 1767.

The children of Simon, son of Simon, son of Henry, by Sarah Chester,
were

  1. Sarah, m. Samuel Treat. 2. Martha, m. William Stoughton. 3.
  Simon. 4. Christopher. 5. Eunice. 6. James, b. 1700, d. in 1748.

The children of Henry, son of Simon, son of Henry, were

  1. Henry. 2. Thomas. 3. Peter, d. Dec. 1735. 4. Rachel, m. Joseph
  Hunt. 5. Gideon.

Henry, son of Henry, son of Simon, son of Henry, had

  1. Henry.--Peter, son of Henry, son of Simon, son of Henry, had
  Giles.

The children of Gideon, the son of Henry, son of Simon, son of Henry,
were, by Abigail Mather,

  1. Abigail, b. April 15, 1741, m. Charles Rockwell;

by Naomi Olmsted,

  2. Samuel, b. April 4, 1751. 3. Naomi, b. Sept. 28, 1754, m. Rev.
  William Robison. 4. Gideon, b. Nov. 28, 1756. 5. Elizur, b. April
  12, 1760.

The children of Samuel, son of Gideon, son of Henry, son of Simon,
son of Henry, by Jerusha Wolcott his wife, were

  1. Jerusha, b. Oct. 8, 1775. 2. Naomi, b. Oct. 10, 1777. 3.
  Samuel, b. Dec. 12, 1781. 4. Elihu, b. Feb. 12, 1784. 5. Sophia,
  b. March 29, 1786. 6. Ursula, b. Nov. 17, 1788.

The children of William, son of Simon, son of Henry, by Abiah Hawley,
his wife, were

  1. Abiah, m. Samuel Stoughton, Windsor. 2. Lucia, m. Stephen
  Olmsted, Hartford. 3. William, b. July 21, 1711. 4. Martha, m.
  ---- Chapin, Springfield. 5. Ephraim.

The children of William, son of William, son of Simon, son of Henry,
by Abigail Abbot, his wife, were

  1. Eunice, b. Dec. 11, 1747. 2. Eunice, b. March 1, 1750. 3.
  Abigail, b. Dec. 25, 1751. 4. William, b. Feb. 10, 1753, m.
  Esther Stevens at Castleton. 5. Abigail, b. Feb. 8, 1755, m.
  Oliver Ellsworth, Esq. of Windsor. 6. Martha, b. April 23, 1757.
  7. Abiel, b. Aug. 10, 1761.

The children of Ephraim, son of William, son of Simon, son of Henry,
by Mary Kellogg, his wife, were

  1. Sarah, b. Feb. 25, 1760, m. Josiah Bissell, Windsor. 2.
  Ephraim, b. Feb. 25, 1762.

The children of Roger, son of Simon, son of Henry, by Sarah Drake,
his wife, were

  1. Roger, b. Sept. 14, 1704, d. Oct. 19, 1756. 2. Elisabeth, b.
  April 10, 1706, m. Roger Newberry, Windsor. 3. Alexander, b. Jan.
  20, 1708, d. Oct. 18, 1711. 4. Samuel, b. Jan. 9, 1709, d. Dec.
  27, 1717. 5. Alexander, b. Jan. 7, 1712. 6. ---- (still-born,)
  b. Dec. 10, 1712. 7. Sarah, b. Jan. 31, 1715, d. Jan. 5, 1735.
  8. Hepsibah, b. June 23, 1717, m. John Strong, E. Windsor. 9.
  Josiah, b. Feb. 6, 1719. 10. Erastus,[A] b. Feb. 8, 1721, d. May
  12, 1722. 11. Epaphras,[20] b. Feb. 8, 1721, d. April 3, 1733.
  12. Erastus, b. Sept. 21, 1722. 13. Ursula, b. Oct. 30, 1724,
  m. Matthew Griswold, Esq., Lyme. 14. Oliver, b. Nov. 20, 1726,
  Governor of Connecticut, d. at Litchfield, Dec. 1, 1797. 15.
  Maryanna, b. Jan. 1, 1730, m. Thomas Williams, Esq., Brookline.

The children of Roger, son of Roger, son of Simon, son of Henry, by
Mary Newberry, his wife, were

  1. Roger, b. Sept. 18, 1729, d. Dec. 15, 1729. 2. Mary, b. Oct.
  15, 1730, d. Aug. 15, 1737. 3. Roger, b. June 16, 1733, d. Nov.
  1, 1736. 4. Sarah, b. June 7, 1735, m. Elisha Steel, Esq., of
  Tolland. 5. Roger, b. Nov. 10, 1737. 6. Epaphras, b. May 2, 1740.
  7. Mary, b. April 4, 1742, m. John Goodale. 8. Emelia, b. Oct.
  20, 1744, d. Feb. 25, 1745. 9. Parmenio, b. April 17, 1746. 10.
  Emelia, b. Oct. 27, 1750, m. Marvin Lord of Lyme. 11. Martha, b.
  April 23, 1753, d. May 9, 1753.

The children of Roger, son of Roger, son of Roger, son of Simon, son
of Henry, by Dorcas Burnham, his wife, were

  1. Martha, b. Oct. 29, 1777, (?) m. Samuel Treat, Windsor, d.
  April 27, 1781. 2. Roger, b. May 25, 1760. 3. Abner, b. March
  12, 1762, d. May 11, 1762. 4. Jemima, b. May 14, 1763, m. James
  Steel. 5. Cornelius, b. July 12, 1765. 6. Hannah, b. Aug. 1,
  1769, d. Dec. 31, 1769. 7. Abigail, b. Dec. 11, 1770. 8. Seth, b.
  Oct. 11, 1773. 9. Emelia, b. July 17, 1776, d. July 29, 1776. 10.
  Emelia, b. Feb. 2, 1779. 11. Oliver, b. March 6, 1780, d. April
  24, 1781. 12. Rhoda, b. April 13, 1785.

The children of Roger, son of Roger, son of Roger, son of Roger, son
of Simon, son of Henry, by Mary Steel, his wife, were

  1. Maryann, b. Nov. 11, 1784. 2. Mehetabel, b. May 19, 1786, d.
  July 13, 1787. 3. Mehitable, b. March 20, 1788, d. April 30,
  1788. 4. Oliver, b. May 25, 1789.

The children of Epaphras, son of Roger, son of Roger, son of Simon,
son of Henry, by Mabel Burnham, his wife, were

  1. Sarah, b. July 10, 1765. 2. James, b. April 19, 1767. 3.
  Mabel, b. March 17, 1771. 4. Mary, b. July 26, 1773.

The children of Parmenio, son of Roger, son of Roger, son of Simon,
son of Henry, by Mary Ballard, his wife, were

  1. Alfred, b. April 14, 1769. 2. Parmenio, b. Dec. 17, 1770. 3.
  Prudence, b. Aug. 21, 1772, d. Aug. 2, 1776. 4. Josiah, b. April
  20, 1776. 5. Mary, b. Oct. 27, 1778. 6. Pruda, b. May 10, 1789.

The children of James, son of Epaphras, son of Roger, son of Roger,
son of Simon, son of Henry, by Miriam Munsell were

  1. Anson, b. April 9, 1787. 2. Epaphras, b. April 7, 1789.

The children of Alexander, son of Roger, son of Simon, son of Henry,
were, by Lydia Atwater, his wife,

  1. Jeremiah, b. Nov. 14, 1733. 2. Alexander, b. 1735, d. 1756. 3.
  Lydia, b. 1737, m. Samuel Austin of New Haven;

by Mary Richards,

  4. Esther, b. Sept. 16, 1746, d. Oct. 9, 1746. 5. Simon, b. Aug.
  9, 1747. 6. Esther, b. July 17, 1749, m. Samuel Treat of E.
  Windsor. 7. George, b. May 23, 1751, d. Oct. 17, 1751. 8. George,
  b. Oct. 17, 1752. 9. Christopher, b. Oct. 1, 1754. 10. Mary, b.
  Aug. 7, 1756, m. Elihu Griswold of Windsor. 11. Alexander, b. Sept.
  15, 1758. 12. Guy, b. Aug. 7, 1760. 13. Elisabeth, b. Jan. 13,
  1763, m. Elizur Wolcott of E. Windsor.

The children of Jeremiah, son of Alexander, son of Roger, son of
Simon, son of Henry, by Sarah Goodsale, his wife, were

  1. Martha, b. Aug. 18, 1762. 2. Thomas, b. Aug. 17, 1764. 3.
  Sarah, b. May 7, 1767.

The children of Simon, son of Alexander, son of Roger, son of Simon,
son of Henry, by Lucy Rogers, his wife, were

  1. Emelia. 2. ----. 3. ----. 4. Alexander. 5. Lucy. 6. Mary. 7.
  Lucy. 8. Martha. 9. Sophia. 10. Catharine. 11. Elisabeth.

The children of George, son of Alexander, son of Roger, son of Simon,
son of Henry, by T---- Rowland were

  1. Mary, b. Sept. 25, 1777. 2. Lucy, b. Jan. 31, 1780. 3. Henry
  Rowland, b. March 22, 1783. 4. William Frederick, b. June 9,
  1787. 5. Elisabeth, b. Nov. 14, 1790.

The children of Christopher, son of Alexander, son of Roger, son of
Simon, son of Henry, by Lucy Parsons, his wife, were

  1. Laura, b. May 7, 1783. 2. Elisabeth, b. Jan. 20, 1784. 3.
  Christopher, b. June 20, 1786. 4. Laura, b. Oct. 3, 1789.

The children of Alexander, son of Alexander, son of Roger, son of
Simon, son of Henry, by Frances Burbanks, his wife, were

  1. Frances, b. Aug. 9, 1786. 2. Henry, b. March 16, 1788. 3.
  Alexander, b. Feb. 14, 1790.

The children of Guy, son of Alexander, son of Roger, son of Simon,
son of Henry, by Abigail Allyn, his wife, were

  1. Abigail. 2. Abigail, b. Oct., 1786. 3. Guy, b. Oct., 1788. 4.
  James, b. Nov., 1790.

The children of Erastus, son of Roger, son of Simon, son of Henry, by
Jerusha Wolcott, his wife, were

  1. Erastus, b. Dec. 24, 1747, d. Aug. 16, 1751. 2. Fluvia, b.
  May 27, 1750, d. Aug. 23, 1751. 3. Erastus, b. July 6, 1752.
  4. Fluvia, b. Jan. 5, 1754, m. Roswell Grant of E. Windsor. 5.
  Jerusha, b. Nov. 29, 1755, m. Samuel Wolcott of E. Windsor. 6.
  Aiodi, b. Sept. 29, 1759. 7. Albert, b. Dec. 19, 1761.

The children of Erastus, son of Erastus, son of Roger, son of Simon,
son of Henry, by Chloe Bissell, his wife, were

  1. Erastus, b. Oct. 7, 1784. 2. Chloe, b. April 19, 1786. 3.
  Edward, b. Oct. 12, 1788.

The children of Albert, son of Erastus, son of Roger, son of Simon,
son of Henry, by Hannah Loomis, his wife, were

  1. Hannah, b. May 19, 1786. 2. Albert, b. Nov. 20, 1787. 3.
  Cynthia, b. Sept. 15, 1789.

The children of Oliver, son of Roger, son of Simon, son of Henry, by
Lorana Collins, his wife, were

  1. Oliver, b. Aug. 31, 1757, d. Sept. 13, 1787. 2. Oliver,
  b. Jan. 11, 1760, m. Elisabeth Stoughton, was Governor of
  Connecticut, died in New York City, June 1, 1833, and was
  interred in Litchfield, Ct., his native place. 3. Lorana, (or
  Laura,) b. Dec. 15, 1761, m. William Moseley, Esq. of Hartford.
  4. Mary Ann, b. Feb. 15, 1766, m. Chancey Goodrich, Esq., of
  Hartford. 5. Frederick, b. Nov. 2, 1767, m. 1. Betsey Huntington
  of Norwich, b. Nov. 8, 1774, d. April 2, 1812; 2. Mrs. Sally W.
  Cook, b. Aug. 7, 1785, d. Sept. 14, 1842. By his first wife, he
  had six children; namely, 1. Mary Ann Goodrich, b. Aug. 9, 1801.
  2. Hannah Huntington, b. Jan. 14, 1803. 3. Joshua Huntington,
  b. Aug. 29, 1804. 4. Elisabeth, b. March 6, 1806. 5. Frederick
  Henry, b. Aug. 19, 1808. 6. Laura Maria, b. Aug 14, 1811. By his
  second wife, he had four children; namely, 7. Charles Moseley,
  b. Nov. 20, 1816. 8. Chauncey Goodrich, b. March 15, 1819. 9.
  Henry Griswold, b. Nov. 24, 1820. 10. Mary Frances, b. July 9,
  1823.--He d. May 28, 1837.

       *       *       *       *       *

  [The above Family Genealogy was found among the papers of
  the late Hon. Frederick Wolcott of Litchfield, Ct., and was
  transmitted to us for publication, by George C. Woodruff, Esq.
  We purpose to publish at some future time, a brief Memoir of
  the Wolcott Family, accompanied with an engraving of one of the
  Governor Wolcotts.]




THE MINOT FAMILY.

BY LEMUEL SHATTUCK, ESQ.

(Concluded from page 178.)


FIFTH GENERATION.

(23) V. George Minot [57--3] d. in Dorchester, Nov. 10, 1744, a. 41.
He m. Abigail Fenno, Dec. 24, 1729. After his death she m. William
Tucker of Milton. They had

  133--1 John,  bapt. Dec.  6, 1730, m. Martha Wild of Milton. (51)
  134--2 Jerusha,     Jan. 13, 1733, m. Col. Lemuel Robinson of Dorchester.
  135--3 Abigail.
  136--4 Samuel,               1742.

(24) V. Dea. George Farrar m. Mary Barrett [61--1] and lived in
Lincoln. He d. of the small-pox, May 28, 1777, a. 73. She d. Sept.
25, 1778, in her 73d year. The children were

  137--1 George,    b. Nov. 23, 1730,  gr. H. C., 1751, d. Sept. 17, 1756.
                                         See notice of him in History of
                                         Concord, p. 247.
  138--2 Mary,      b. July  6, 1732,  m. Nathan Brown of Lincoln.
  139--3 Sarah,     b. Aug. 11, 1733,  d. July 28, 1736.
  140--4 Sarah,     b. Oct.  4, 1736.
  141--5 Elisabeth, b. Feb.  2, 1739,  m. Stephen Hosmer, Jr., May 3, 1743.
  142--6 Humphrey,  b. Feb. 28, 1740,  m. Lucy Farrar, April 26, 1770.
                                          [195--6]
  143--7 Joseph,    b. Jan. 20, 1744,  gr. H. C., 1767. See History of
                                           Concord, p. 314.
  144--8 Love,      b. June 13, 1749,  d. young.

(25) V. Oliver Barrett [64--4] lived in Bolton, where he d. April 4,
1788, a. 76. He m. Hannah Hunt of Concord, Dec. 8, 1738, who d. April
7, 1774, a. 57. They had

  145--1 Rebecca, b. Jan. 1, 1739, m. David Nurse, June 3, 1762, a
  farmer who settled in Bolton, had 9 children, d. March 26, 1823.

  146--2 Hannah, b. Feb. 19, 1742, m. William Sawyer, Jan. 18,
  1764, a farmer of Berlin, had a family, d. Feb., 1830.

  147--3 Bathsheba, April 2, 1744, m. Aholiab Sawyer, June 5, 1769,
  a farmer of Templeton, and had a family.

  148--4 Oliver, b. July 22, 1746, m. Sarah Whitcomb. Settled on
  his father's farm. Had 5 children. He d. May 11, 1817, a. 70. She
  d. Feb. 5, 1834, a. 80.

  149--5 Ruth, b. Dec. 24, 1749, m. Jonathan Nurse, Oct. 20, 1772,
  a farmer of Bolton, had 10 children, d. Dec. 16, 1841.

  150--6 Abigail, b. Aug. 8, 1752, m. Calvin Sawyer, a farmer of
  Bolton. She had 8 sons and 2 daughters, d. Nov. 24, 1839, a. 87.

(26) V. Capt. Humphrey Barrett [65--5] lived in Concord, where he d.
March 24, 1783, in his 68th year. He m. his cousin, Elisabeth Adams,
[86--2] Dec. 9, 1742. She d. June 5, 1791, in her 70th year. The
children were

  151--1 Elisabeth, b. April 10, 1745,  m. Dea. Geo. Minot. (111--5.)
  152--2 Rebecca,   b. Feb.  13, 1746,  m. Reuben Hunt, Jan. 18, 1770.
  153--3 Mary,      b. Nov.  18, 1748,  m. Jonas Lee.
  154--4 Sarah,     b. Sept.  8, 1750,  d. Aug. 14, 1751.
  155--5 Humphrey,  b. May   23, 1752,  m. Rebecca Heywood, July 6, 1780.
                                           He d. without issue, March 18,
                                           1827, a. 74.
  156--6 Sarah,     b. Feb.  16, 1754,  m. Stephen Barrett, June 22, 1775.
                                           [187--7]
  157--7 Martha,    b. May   21, 1756,  m. Dea. Joshua Brooks, Feb. 27,
                                           1780.
  158--8 Ruth,      b. Dec.  25, 1760,  m. Jonas Haywood, Esq., Feb. 3,
                                           1786.
  159--9 Abel,      b. Oct.  28, 1764,  m. Lucy Minot, Dec. 1, 1796.
                                           (21--3) He was a merchant; d.
                                           in England. She d. Sept. 25,
                                           1798, a. 28, leaving one son,
                                           b. Sept. 18, 1797, who d. Jan.
                                           2, 1818, a. 20.

(27) V. Col. Charles Prescott m. Elisabeth Barrett, [66--6] and lived
in Concord. He represented the town nine years, was Justice of the
Peace and intrusted with many important offices. He d. Feb. 2, 1779,
a. 68. She d. April 23, 1799, aged 82. They had 7 children;

  160--1 Elisabeth, b. Aug.  31, 1737,  m. 1. Jesse Hosmer. 2. Aaron Jones.
  161--2 Lucy,      b. Dec.  21, 1738,  d. single, Dec. 22, 1819, a. 81.
  162--3 Mary,      b. Aug.   9, 1742,  d. single, May 4, 1797, a. 55.
  163--4 Charles,   b. Sept. 24, 1744,  d. single, May 10, 1810, a. 65.
  164--5 Rebecca,   b. Sept. 19, 1746,  m. Joseph Hayward.
  165--6 John,      b. Oct.  18, 1748,  d. Sept. 12, 1753.
  166--7 Anne,      b. June   7, 1760,  m. Amos Baker of Lincoln.

(28) V. John Barrett [67--7] lived in the north part of Concord as a
farmer. He m. Lois Brooks, Nov. 15, 1744, and had

  167--1 Joseph,    b. Jan. 5,   1745, lived in Mason, N. H.
  168--2 John,      b. Aug. 2,   1748, lived on his father's farm. He m.
           Experience Ball, Nov. 29, 1780, and was father to Rev. Joshua
           Barrett, who graduated at Dart. Coll. in 1810, and to Rev. John
           Barrett, who graduated at Williams Coll. in 1810.
  169--3 Lydia,     b.          m. 1. Silas Mann. 2. Dea. George Minot.
                                   [111--5]
  170--4 Rebecca,   b.          m. Samuel White.

Another daughter m. a Chamberlain, another m. a Boynton, and another
d. single.

(29) V. Benjamin Barrett [61--1] lived in Concord, where he d. Oct.
23, 1738, having had three children, names given below. He m. Rebecca
Jones, who, after Mr. Barrett's death, m. Jonas Prescott of Westford,
Dec. 25, 1740.

  171--1 Rebecca,   b. Feb. 19,  1731,  m. Nathaniel Boynton of Westford.
  172--2 Benjamin,  b. Jan. 9,   1735,  m. Sarah Miriam of Lexington.
  173--3 Jonas,     b. Sept. 24, 1737,  m.

The last two settled in Ashby.

(30) V. Dea. Thomas Barrett [70--2] d. in Concord, June 20, 1779,
a. 72, on the place where his father lived. He and his brother Col.
James, did a large business and left a large estate. He m. Mary
Jones. They had 7 children, as follows;

  174--1 Thomas,    b. Nov. 17,  1731,   m. Dorcas Minot, [110--4] Jan. 15,
                                            1761.
  175--2 Ruth,      b. Oct. 19,  1734,   m. Capt. Charles Miles.
  176--3 Charles,   b. Jan. 13,  1740,   m. Rebecca Minot, [112--6] and
                                            lived in New Ipswich, N. H.;
                                            had 2 sons and 2 daughters.
  177--4 Samuel,    b.                   m. Sarah and lived at the mill
                                            east of the old place. He had
                                            one son, Samuel, b. Dec. 24,
                                            1773, d. Aug. 1, 1825; and
                                            2 daughters.
  178--5            b.                   m. David Hubbard of Hanover, N. H.
  179--6 Amos,      b. April 23, 1752,   m.            and lived where his
                                            father did, and had 2 sons and
                                            4 daughters.
  180--7 Mary,      b. Nov. 21,  1756.

(31) V. Col. James Barrett [71--3] was the distinguished commander
of the Provincial troops in the battle of Concord, when the first
forcible resistance was made to the British, at the commencement of
hostilities in the American Revolution, on the 19th April, 1775.
He died April 11, 1779, a. 68. The following epitaph is on his
gravestone in Concord.

      Here rests
      in hope the body of
      Col. James Barrett
      who departed this life
      April 11th, 1779, in the 69th year of his age.
      _Sudden the summons came and quick the flight;
      We trust to be with Christ in relms of light._
      In public and private life he was courteous, benevolent,
      and charitable. His fidelity, uprightness and
      ability in various offices and employments, justly
      procured him esteem. For many years he represented this
      Town in General Court. He early stepped forward in
      the contest with Britain and distinguished himself in the
      cause of America. His warm attachment to and careful
      practice of the religion of Christ compleated his worth as
      a Christian and with his other virtues preserve his memory
      and keep it with that of the just which is blest.

He m. Rebecca Hubbard, Dec. 21, 1732. Her mother was Rebecca
Bulkeley, a daughter of Capt. Joseph, granddaughter of Hon. Peter,
and great-granddaughter of Rev. Peter Bulkeley the first minister
of Concord. She d. Oct. 18, 1806, a. 90. They had the following
children; namely,

  181--1 James,    b. Jan.   4, 1734,  m. Melicent Estabrook, July 4, 1758.
  182--2 Nathan,   b. Dec.  30, 1735,  m. Miriam Hunt,        May 22, 1761.
  183--3 Lydia,    b. Jan.   6, 1738,  m. Josiah Melvin.
  184--4 Rebecca,  b. Nov.  19, 1741,  m. Dea. George Minot. (111--5)
  185--5 Ephraim,  b. March  3, 1744,  d. single, March 3, 1761, a. 26.
  186--6 Perses,   b. Sept. 25, 1747,  m. Jonas Patten. She d. Sept. 5,
                                          1781, a. 34, leaving one son and
                                          4 daughters.
  187--7 Stephen,  b. Jan.  29, 1750,  m. Sarah Barrett. [156--6]
  188--8 Peter,    b. April 16, 1754,  m. Mary Prescott, July 8, 1779.
                                          [219--8]
  189--9 Lucy,     b. July  20, 1761,  m. Noah Ripley, April 8, 1783. He
                                          was brother of Rev. Dr. Ripley
                                          of Concord. She d. Dec. 19, 1787,
                                          a. 26, leaving 2 sons and one
                                          daughter.

(32) V. Dea. Samuel Farrar of Lincoln m. Lydia Barrett, [72--4] Jan.
12, 1732. He d. April 17, 1783, a. 75. She d. Children,

  190--1 Lydia,    b. Sept.  2, 1736,  m. William Bond, March 6, 1755.
  191--2 Samuel,   b. Feb.  14, 1737,  m. Mary Hoar, Feb. 10, 1772.
  192--3 Stephen,  b. Sept.  8, 1738,  m. Eunice Brown.
  193--4 James,    b. July  21, 1741,  d. in 1767, single, in New Ipswich.
  194--5 Rebecca,  b. Aug.  13, 1743,  m. Dr. John Preston, Nov. 29, 1764.
  195--6 Lucy,     b. April 27, 1745,  m. Humphrey Farrar, April 26, 1770.
                                          [142--6]
  196--7 Timothy,  b. June  28, 1747,  m. Nancy Bancroft.
  197--8 Mary,     b. July   5, 1754,  d. Sept. 2, 1756.

(33) V. Dr. Timothy Minot [77--1] gr. H. C., 1747. He was a physician
in Concord, where he d. July 25, 1804, a. 78. He m. Mary Martin,
daughter of Rev. John Martin of Northborough. She d. Dec. 23, 1801.
Children,

  198--1 Timothy Martin, b. Aug. 16, 1757, m. Hannah Austin, Jan. 27, 1804.
                                          Lived in Boston. He d. Nov. 18,
                                          1837. She d. March 17, 1820, aged
                                          59.
  199--2 Mary,     b. May   20, 1759,  m. Ammi White, Aug. 12, 1788.
  200--3 Abigail,  b. Aug.  20, 1761,  d. Aug., 1830, unmarried.
  201--4 Stephen,  b. Jan.  30, 1763,  d. single, in Concord, April, 1821.
  202--5 Susannah, b. Aug.   4, 1765,  m. Col. John Parker of Billerica.
  203--6 James,    b. Jan.  28, 1767,  d. single in Ohio.
  204--7 Sarah,    b. Sept.  2, 1769,  m. Tilly Merrick, Esq.
  205--8 John,     b. Sept. 26, 1771,  m. Thomasine Elisabeth Bond.
  206--9 Beulah,   b. June  28, 1773,  m. May 17, 1807, Professor Ebenezer
                                          Adams of Dartmouth College.

(34) V. Tilly Merrick m. Mary Minot, [78--2] and settled in Concord.
They had

  207--1 Tilly,    b. Jan. 29, 1755,   m. Sarah Minot, his cousin.
  208--2 John,     b. Feb.  7, 1761,   d. single, Aug. 15, 1797, a. 36.
  209--3 Stephen,  b. Aug. 8, 1767.
  210--4 Augustus, b. July 5, 1759.

(35) V. Maj. John Minot [80--1] m. Sarah Stow of Marlborough, Jan.
26, 1744, lived in Concord, where he d. July 31, 1802, a. 85. She d.
Feb. 11, 1796, a. 75. They had

  211--1 John, b.         m. Hannah Hubbard.

(36) V. Benjamin Prescott, Esq., of Salem, who gr. H. C., 1736, m.
Rebecca Minot, [81--2] Nov. 26, 1741. He d. Aug. 18, 1778, a. 61. She
d. Oct. 8, 1761, a. 41. They had the following children;

  212--1 Rebecca,   b. May 20, 1742,   m. Hon. Roger Sherman, May 12, 1763.
  213--2 Martha,    b. Nov. 23, 1744,  m. Stephen Goodhue, Esq., of New
                                          Haven.
  214--3 Benjamin,  b. March 14, 1747, d. May 15, 1751.
  215--4 James,     b. March 16, 1749, m. Rebecca Barrett, Oct. 28, 1783,
                                          daughter of James Barrett, Jr.
                                          [181--1]
  216--5 Elisabeth, b. Dec. 1, 1752,   m. Henry Daggett, Esq., Nov. 26,
                                          1771.
  217--6 Mercy,     b. Feb. 5, 1755,   m. Henry Gibbs, Oct. 29, 1781.
  218--7 Benjamin,  b. Oct. 22, 1757,  m. Hannah Blakely of New Haven.
  219--8 Mary,      b. May 9, 1760,    m. Peter Barrett, July 8, 1779.
                                          [188--8]

(37) V. Capt. James Minot [82--3] m. for his 1st wife Rebecca Stow
of Merrimac, and for his 2nd wife, a daughter of Col. Blanchard of
Tyngsborough. He d. Aug. 2, 1773, a. 47. She d. Feb. 9, 1767, a. 37.
They had the following children, of whom I have not been able to
obtain many particulars.

  220--1 Rebecca,                      m. Isaac Newton;
  221--2 Rachel,                       m. ---- Anger and d. without issue;
  222--3 Joseph,                       d. about 1776, a. 20;
  223--4 James,                        d. about 1776, a. 18;
  224--5 Sarah,                        m. ---- Upton;
  225--6 Hannah,                       m. Darly;
  226--7 Elisabeth,                    m. Smith;
  227--8 Martha,                       m. ---- Squiers.

(38) V. Rev. Josiah Sherman, minister of Woburn, m. Martha Minot,
[83--4] Jan. 24, 1757. A biographical notice of Mr. Sherman is in the
American Quarterly Register, Vol. XI., p. 188. They had the following
children, born in Woburn, and perhaps others.

  228--1 Roger Minot Sherman, b. Dec. 9, 1757, settled in Fairfield, Ct.
  229--2 Martha,              b. Dec. 8, 1758.
  230--3 Elisabeth,           b. March 26, 1761.
  231--4 Mary,                b. Feb. 3, 1763.
  232--5 Susanna,             b. April 7, 1765.

(39) V. Lt. Ephraim Minot, [84--5] d. in Concord, Sept. 30, 1794, a.
53. He was an officer, and was wounded in the battle of Princeton. He
m. Abigail Prescott, who d. Feb. 27, 1825, a. 78. Their children were

  233--1 Abel,     b. July 10, 1765,   m. Lydia Shed. He d. in Lincoln,
                                          Aug. 6, 1809, having had 6
                                          children.
  234--2 Abigail,  b. Jan. 30, 1778,   m. William Bowers, May 12, 1797.
  235--3 Mary,     b. Jan. 10, 1781.
  236--4 George,   b. Jan. 31, 1783.
  237--5 Louisa,   b. Feb. 10, 1787.

(40) V. Capt. Daniel Adams [85--1] removed from Lincoln, the place
of his birth, to Townsend, where he d. Oct. 10, 1795, in his 75th
year. He represented the town in General Court, and held many
important civil and military offices. He was thrice married. 1. To
Kesia Brooks, daughter of Benjamin Brooks of Townsend, previously of
Concord, March 1, 1744. She d. in childbirth, Aug. 21, 1754, having
had 6 children, 5 of whom survived her. 2. To Mehitable Crosby of
Townsend, by whom he had 10 children. She d. April 4, 1783, a. 49.
3. Widow Sarah Phelps of Lancaster, Jan. 30, 1784. His children were
as follows;

  238--1                               d. in infancy.
  239--2 Daniel,    b. July 29, 1746,  m. Lucy Taylor. May 21, 1772. He
                                          d. June 10, 1827, a. 80. She d.
                                          Sept. 12, 1836. He was father to
                                          Dr. Daniel Adams of Mont Vernon,
                                          author of several valuable
                                          school books.
  240--3 Abner,     b. Oct. 22, 1748,  m. 1. Mary Sawtell. 2. Sarah
                                          Sawtell.
  241--4 Rebecca,   b. July 6, 1750,   m. James Campbell, Dec. 21, 1769.
                                          He lived in Brookline, N. H. She
                                          d. at an advanced age, leaving
                                          several children.
  242--5 Benjamin,  b. Oct. 15, 1752,  m. Mary Stone of Ashly, July 16,
                                          1778. He d. in Cavendish, Vt.;
                                          had 7 children, 4 sons and 3
                                          daughters.
  243--6 Ephraim,   b. Aug. 14, 1754,  m. Lydia Knowlton, lived in
                                          Jaffrey, N. H. Had one child,
                                          who died without issue.
  244--7 Kesia,     b.                 m. John Sherwin. She d. May 25,
                                          1782, a. 23, a few days after
                                          her marriage.
  245--8 Elisabeth, b.                 d. unmarried, Jan. 9, 1782, a. 19.
  246--9 Mehetabel, b.                 m. John Smith; lived in Brookline
                                          and had 4 sons and 2 daughters.
  247--10 Mary,     b.                 m. Dea. John Giles, May 6, 1789. He
                                          had been previously m.; and his
                                          first wife d. Oct. 17, 1788, a.
                                          24, by whom he had 5 children.
                                          By his 2nd wife he had also 5
                                          children. He d. Aug. 14, 1825,
                                          a. 62.
  248--11 James,                       d. young.
  249--12 Phebe,    b. Dec. 18, 1770,  m. Solomon Jewett, lived in
                                          Townsend and had 4 children:
                                          Solomon, Phebe, Kesia, and
                                          Rozella.
  250--13 James,    b. April 15, 1773, m. Sybel Gasset, lived in Townsend,
                                          and had 3 daughters.
  251--14 Joseph,   b.                 m. Polly Brooks.
                                          Two other children d. in infancy.

(41) V. Capt. Joseph Adams [87--3] d. in Lincoln, March 28, 1807, a.
83. He m. 1. Mary Eveleth of Stow, 1746. She d. July 10, 1791, a. 66,
having had 11 children. He m. 2. Mrs. Priscilla Reed Martin, July 23,
1795. Children,

  252--1 Mary,     b. April 29, 1747,  d. Jun. 4, 1748, a. 1 y., 1 m., 6 d.
  253--2 Joseph,   b. Jan. 4, 1749,    m. Love Lawrence, Sept. 4. 1770. He
                                          was a physician; d. in England,
                                          Feb. 2, 1807, a. 58. He had 12
                                          children. [303--2]
  254--3 Charles,  b. Nov. 8, 1750,    was a physician, and loyalist, d. at
                                          Annapolis in Nova Scotia.
  255--4 Nathan,   b. Nov. 11, 1752,   d. Aug. 11, 1756, a. 3 y., 9 m.
  256--5 Mary,     b. Oct. 11, 1754,   d. Aug. 17, 1756, a. 1 y., 10 m.,
                                          6 d.
  257--6 Sarah,    b. Sept. 13, 1756,  m. Robert Eames, Sudbury, Aug. 14,
                                          1783.
  258--7 Mary,     b. July 14, 1758,   m. Elisha Wheeler, Sudbury, May 4,
                                          1779.
  259--8 Nathan,   b, March 1, 1760,   m. Hannah McCarty, d. in Charlestown
                                          without issue, Sept. 25, 1830, a.
                                          70.
  260--9 Martha,   b. July 15, 1763,   m. Dea. David Lawrence of Littleton,
                                          Dec. 23, 1790.
  261--10 Daniel,  b. April 14, 1766,  m. Sarah Goldthwait of Boston.
  262--11 Love,    b. March 21, 1749,  m. Henry Willard of Keene.

(42) V. Capt. Nathan Brown m. Rebecca Adams, [88--1] March 10, 1749.
He d. in Lincoln, Oct. 13, 1781. She afterwards m. Solomon Foster,
Nov. 15, 1790. She d. Dec. 24, 1811, a. 84. Children,

  263--1 Mary,      b.                 m. Benjamin Allen.
  264--2 Rebecca,   b. April 8, 1751,  d. unmarried, April 27, 1773.
  265--3 Elisabeth, b. Oct. 1, 1752,   m. Dr. Richard Russell, Jan. 28,
                                          1777.
  266--4 Nathan,    b. April 16, 1755, m. Lucy Garfield, 1775. He was
                                          killed in Concord, by a load of
                                          wood passing over him, Dec. 12,
                                          1814, a. 60.
  267--5 Daniel,    b. Sept. 13, 1757, d. in the West Indies.
  268--6 Eunice,    b. Feb. 13, 1761,  m. William Lawrence of Lincoln,
                                          Nov., 1780.
  269--7 Lydia,     b. Nov. 12, 1763,  m. Daniel Weston of Lincoln, 1793.
  270--8 Kezia,     b. Feb. 28, 1769,  m. Solomon Foster of Lincoln.

(43) V. James Adams [89--5] m. 1. Kezia Conant, Jan. 15, 1756, by
whom he had 3 children. She d. Aug. 22, 1765, in her 37th year. He
m. 2. Delia Adams, daughter of Edward Adams of Sudbury, June 5, 1766,
by whom he had 12 children. She d. in Boston, Dec. 9, 1813, a. 70,
and was buried in Lincoln. He d. in Lincoln, March 10, 1805, a. 71.
His children were

  271--1 Betsey,    b. Jan. 22, 1757,  m. Benjamin Adams of Sudbury, Nov.
                                          20, 1777.
  272--2 James,     b. Jan. 14, 1759,  m. Nancy Tarbell of Lincoln,  Nov.
                                          15, 1796.
  273--3 Kezia,     b. Nov. 6, 1762,   d. March 30, 1769, a. 6 y., 4 m.,
                                          24 d.
  274--4 Delia,     b. May 26, 1767,   m. Ebenezer Woodward of Hanover,
                                          N. H., Feb. 26, 1795.
  275--5 Andrew,    b. Oct. 9, 1768,   m. Polly Hartwell of Lincoln, Sept.
                                          10, 1795.
  276--6 Eli,       b. March 14, 1770, m. Sarah Swift of Boston.
  277--7 Samuel,    b. June 7, 1771,   m. Margaret Austin of Charlestown,
                                          Sept. 15, 1797.
  278--8 Kezia,     b. Feb. 19, 1773,  m. Ephraim Jones of Boston, Dec. 6,
                                          1827.
  279--9 Joseph,    b. Nov. 7, 1774,   d. July 7, 1775, a. 8 m.
  280--10 Rebecca,  b. April 4, 1776,  d. Sept. 23, 1780, a. 4 y., 3 m.,
                                          19 d.
  281--11 Joseph,   b. June 17, 1778,  d. Sept. 13, 1780, a. 2 y, 2 m.,
                                          26 d.
  282--12 John,     b. Nov. 13, 1780,  d. in Havana, Oct. 15, 1809, a. 29.
  283--13 Mary,     b. July 9, 1782,   m. Silas P. Tarbell of Boston,
                                          March 10, 1808.
  284--14 Joseph,   b. May 6, 1784,    m. 1. Betsey Archibald of Maine.
  285--15 Daniel,   b. Feb. 20, 1789,  d. Nov. 20, 1789.

(44) V. Abel Miles m. Lydia Adams, [90--6] Feb. 26, 1756. He removed
from Concord to New Ipswich, N. H., where he d. Dec. 6, 1814, a. 81.
She d. March 20, 1804, a. 68. He had the following children, all born
in Concord;

  286--1 Lydia,     bapt. Feb. 20, 1757, m. David Rumrell, Feb. 20, 1800.
  287--2 Elisabeth, b.    Dec.  4, 1758, m. John Shattuck, Dec. 11, 1783.
  288--3 Polly,     b.    July  8, 1760, d. unmarried in N. Ipswich, Nov.
                                            14, 1804.
  289--4 Rebecca,   b.    Jan.  3, 1762, m. Levi Mansfield, Jan. 21, 1781.
  290--5 Abel,      b.    Oct. 17, 1768, m. Betsey Shipley, Nov. 10, 1794.

(45) V. John Adams [91--1] lived in Lincoln. He m. 1. Lucy Hubbard,
Dec. 12, 1749, who d. Dec. 24, 1791, and 2. Beulah Baker, Feb. 20,
1794. He had the following children,

  291--1 John,      b. April 15, 1751;
  292--2 Edward,    b. March 27, 1753;
  293--3 Abel,      b. March 8, 1755,   d. July 9, 1756;
  294--4 Abel,      b. Feb. 20, 1757;
  295--5 Thomas,    b. March 22, 1761;
  296--6 Bulkeley,  b. March 14, 1759,  m. Persis Stone of Framingham,
                                           1785;
  297--7 Lucy,      b. June 2, 1763;
  298--8 Ephraim,   b. Feb. 24, 1765,   d. Dec. 24, 1765;
  299--9 Rebecca,   b. Feb. 28, 1767;
  300--10 Ephraim,  b. Aug. 16, 1769,   m. Susanna Flagg, 1789;
  301--11 James,    b. June 8, 1772.

(46) Rev. William Lawrence, minister of Lincoln, m. Love Adams,
[94--2.] He d. April 11, 1780, a. 56. She d. Jan. 3, 1820, a. 95.
(See Hist. Concord, p. 304.) They had children,

  302--1 William,       b. April 10, 1752, m. Eunice Brown, Nov., 1780.
  303--2 Love,          b. April 18, 1754, m. Dr. Joseph Adams, Sept. 4,
                                              1770. [253--2]
  304--3 John Prescott, b. Dec. 24, 1755,  m. Abby Kaine, d. Jan. 28,
                                              1808.
  305--4 Susanna,       b. Jan. 4, 1758,   d. March 12, 1836, unmarried.
  306--5 Sarah,         b. May 12, 1760,   m. Samuel Bass, Esq., of
                                              Randolph, Oct. 29, 1783. She
                                              d. Oct. 12, 1822. He gr.
                                              H. C. 1782, d. Feb. 1, 1842.
  307--6 Phebe,     b. Jan. 2, 1762,    m. Rev. Edmund Foster of
                                           Littleton, Oct. 29, 1783.
  308--7 Anna,      b. March 15, 1764,  m. James De Wolf, d. Dec. 8, 1807.
         Mary,      b. Nov. 1, 1767,    m. Asa Brooks, d. Sept., 1812.
  309--8 Abel,      b. Aug. 23, 1771,   m. Mary Hodge, d. Sept. 1, 1800.

(47) Capt. Jonas Minot [108--2] m. 1. Mary Hall, daughter of Rev.
Willard Hall of Westford. She was b. July 30, 1738, and d. Nov. 3,
1792, in her 49th year. He m. 2. Mrs. Mary Dunbar, widow of Rev. Asa
Dunbar of Salem. She d. in Boston, Aug. 2, 1830, a. 82. He d. in
Concord, March 20, 1813, a. 78. A great part of Wilmot, N. H., was
granted to him.

  310--1 Mary,      b. Feb. 21, 1761,   m. Rev. Laban Ainsworth of Jaffrey,
                                           Dec. 4, 1787.
  311--2 Sarah,     b. Jan. 14, 1763,   m. Josiah Melvin, Jan. 28, 1790.
  312--3 Jonas,     b. Feb. 13, 1765,   m. Miriam Barrett, Nov. 18, 1790.
                                           She was the dau. of Col. Nathan
                                           Barrett. [182--2]
  313--4 Elisabeth, b. Aug. 22, 1767,   m. Daniel Page, Jan. 25, 1791.
  314--5 Abigail,   b. Sept. 3, 1769,   m. John Stanyan, Oct.,      1818.
  315--6 Martha,    b. Oct. 17, 1771,   m. Charles Barrett, Jr., of New
                                           Ipswich, Oct. 15, 1799. He was
                                           the son of Charles Barrett.
                                           [176--3]
  316--7 Samuel,    b. April 1, 1774,   m. Hannah Stow of Concord.
  317--8 Stephen,   b. Sept. 28, 1776,  m. Rebecca Trask, Nov. 9, 1809.
  318--9 James,     b. July 4, 1779,    m. Sally Wilson of Nelson, Feb. 8,
                                           1809.

(48) Dea. George Minot [111--5] settled in the eastern part of
Concord. He commanded a company in the Revolution, at Saratoga, (the
taking of Burgoyne,) and in several other places; and was a highly
meritorious officer. He was chosen deacon of the church, Aug. 3,
1779, and continued in office until his death, which took place April
13, 1808, a. 65. He m. 3 wives, all by the name of Barrett. His 1st
wife was Rebecca, daughter of Col. James Barrett, [184--4] whom he
m. Jan. 17, 1765, and who d. March 3, 1775, a. 33. His 2nd wife was
Elisabeth, daughter of Humphrey Barrett, [151--1] whom he m. Dec. 12,
1776, and who d. April 10, 1789, a. 45; and his 3d wife was Lydia,
daughter of John Barrett and widow of Silas Mann. [169--3] He had the
following children all by his first wife;

  319--1 Rebecca,   b. Feb. 4, 1768,    m. William Heywood.
  320--2 Dorcas,    b. April 19, 1769,  m. James Barrett, a grandson of
                                           Col. James B. [181--1]
  321--3 Lucy,      b. April 27, 1770,  m. Abel Barrett [159--9].

(49) V. Stephen Minot [115--1] m. Sarah Clark, only daughter of
Jonas Clark, Esq., of Boston, June 10, 1736. He d. Sunday, Jan. 14,
1787, a. 75. He graduated H. C. 1730, and was a merchant of Boston.
His wife d. June 10, 1783, in her 64th year. They had the following
children;

  322--1 Jonas Clark, b. Aug. 20, 1738, m. Hannah Speakman.
  323--2 Stephen,     b. Feb. 14, 1740, merchant in Jamaica, d. single.
  324--3 William,     b. Feb. 7, 1743,  m. Mary Collson, July 1, 1773,
                                           one of the first settlers in
                                           Camden, Me., d. in Boston,
                                           Nov., 1773.
  325--4 John,        b. Oct. 21, 1744, m. Mary De Rue of Boston; was
                                           master of a vessel in the West
                                           India and Surinam trade, d. of
                                           fever at sea, leaving one child,
                                           Stephen.
  326--5 Francis,     b. Aug. 9, 1746,  d. single in Marlborough, where he
                                           had been for his health. He was
                                           a merchant in Boston.
  327--6 Sarah,       b. Nov. 7, 1749,  m. Gilbert Warner Speakman, by whom
                                           she had 6 children. She d. Aug.
                                           29, 1786.
  328--7 James,            b. Dec.  5, 1751,  m. Mary Deming of Boston.
  329--8 Christopher,      b. March 8, 1754,  m. Elisabeth Mayhew of
                                                 Plymouth.
  330--9 George,           b. Sept. 6, 1756,  d. March 2, 1758.
  331--10 George Richards, b. Dec. 22, 1758,  He grad. H. C. 1778, and was
                                                 the historian of
                                                 Massachusetts. He d. Jan.
                                                 2, 1802. He m. Mary
                                                 Speakman.

(50) V. Jonathan Minot [130--4] lived in Westford, where he d. Feb.
7, 1806, a. 83. He married Esther Proctor of Chelmsford, who d. March
30, 1808, a. 83. They had

  332--1 Esther,    b. May 23, 1747,    m. Samuel Wright of Westford.
  333--2 Jonathan,  b. Aug. 23, 1749,   m. Hannah Eastman, Sept. 3, 1771.
                                           He d. in Westminster, Ms.
  334--3 Joseph,    b. Jan. 13, 1751.   He was killed in the battle of
                                           Bunker Hill.
  335--4 Olive,     b. Jan. 14, 1753,   m. William Reed of Westford.
  336--5 Elisabeth, b. Jan. 13, 1755.
  337--6 John Marston,                  grad. H. C. 1767, lived in
                                           Castine, Me.
  338--7 Jesse,     b. Nov. 5, 1759,    m. Betsey Adams.
  339--8 Joash,     b.                  m. ---- Hildreth of Westford.
  340--9 Patty,     b.                  m. John Clark.




THE PARSONS FAMILY.[21]


As it respects the _origin_ of the name of Parsons, some have
supposed that it was derived from the word _parson_, a clerical
title, given from the fact that a clergyman is the principal person
in the church. Hence in law he is termed _ecclesiæ persona_, and has
full possession of all the rights of a parochial church. The _s_ is
added for euphony's sake, or from the fact that the individual was
the parson's son.

Others have derived it from the word _parish_, as parish-son, meaning
the son of some parish, one supported or educated by the parish.

And others again have supposed that the name is the same with
_Person_, _Peerson_, _Pierson_, and _Pearson_, modified in the
spelling.

_Peirson_ or _Peerson_ is derived, according to Camden, from _son of
Peter_ or _Peterson_, the former coming originally from the French
word, _Pierre_.

It does not appear that there has ever been any attempt to collect
even the materials for a history of the English family of Parsons,
so far as has come to our knowledge, notwithstanding there have
been many individuals among them of great distinction; as knights,
baronets, and noblemen. Those of the name are, and have been
for a long period, found in several counties; as Devonshire,
Buckinghamshire, Nottinghamshire, Oxfordshire, &c.

Prior to 1672, Andrew Parsons, gent., was of Somersetshire, and
Philip Parsons, gent., of Worcestershire. But the earliest record we
have noticed is in

1290. WALTER was then a resident of Mulso in Ireland. How long
before this he or his ancestors went there we know not. The name
is still extant there, and something above one hundred years ago,
Bishop Gibson remarked, (in his edition of Camden's Britannia,) "The
honorable family of Parsons have been advanced to the dignity of
Viscounts, and more lately, Earls of Ross."

1481. SIR JOHN was Mayor of Hereford, who had for his armorial
bearings, _Gules, a leopard's head between three crosses patee,
fitched in the foot ar._--Crest, _a halberd headed az. embued gules_.

1546. ROBERT, afterwards the noted Jesuit, was born this year, and
died April 18, 1610, a. 64. He appears to have been the first of note
of his family. His father lived near Bridgewater, Eng., at a place
called Netherstoway. Robert was educated at Balliol College, Oxford,
and was early distinguished for his abilities, but being accused of
some irregularities he forsook his country and resided for a time
at Antwerp, Louvain, Padua, Rome, Paris and Valladolid. Becoming a
convert to the Romish faith, he propagated that doctrine with all his
ability, and was no small instrument in stirring up the benighted
vassals of Philip II. to attempt the conquest of his native country.
The event of that attempt will always be viewed with an intensity of
interest.

How much Father Parsons had to do in circulating the Pope's bulls and
inflammatory tracts in England at the period of the Armada can never
be known, but from his knowledge of the country, the people, and
their language, it is not unlikely that his agency was by no means
inconsiderable. Fuller, in speaking of the fierceness of the battle
between the fleets observes, that "bullets did not fly about so much
at sea, as bastardly libels did by land; so fitly called, because
none durst father them."

He established an English college at Rome and another at Valladolid,
for such of his countrymen as might follow him, or come otherwise
into exile. He published several works, but that by which he is
best known is entitled "Leicester's Commonwealth," which, though
abounding with misstatements, vague rumors, and base insinuations,
was nevertheless a work of great ability. And although the pen of Sir
Philip Sidney was exercised in its refutation, he is not considered
to have completely effected his object. This most singular book of
Father Robert was first printed in 1641, and in less than 70 years
had become so rare that an edition of it was published, purporting to
have been printed from a _newly discovered manuscript_, and passed
current as such without detection, it is believed. To the original
edition is appended a poem, entitled "Leycester's Ghost," a great
literary curiosity. An extract from the poem is as follows:

      Let no man think I exercis'd the Ghost
      Of this great Peere that sleepeth in the dust,--
      Or conjur'd up his spirit to his cost
      To presse with dispraise or praise unjust,
      I am not partiall but give him his due,
      And to his soule I wish eternall health,
      Ne do I thinke all written tales are true,
      That are inserted in his Common-wealth;
      What others wrot before I do survive,
      But am not like to them incenst with hate,
      And as I plainely write, so do I strive
      To write the truth, not wronging his estate.
      Of whom it may bee said and censur'd well,
      Hee both in vice and vertue did excell.

1556. FRANCIS was vicar of Rothwell in Nottinghamshire. There is a
wood called Parsons' wood, in the hundred of Nassaburgh, in the same
county.

1618. BARTHOLOMEW appears as the author of three sermons--"First
Fruits of the Gentiles," 4to. In 1616, "Assize Sermon," 4to. 1631,
"Dorcas, or a Perfect Patterne of a True Disciple," Sermon, 4to.
Oxford.

[Illustration]

1634. About this year Thomas Parsons was knighted by Charles I. The
foregoing engraving represents his arms, still retained in the family
in the United States, and by his descendants in London, among whom
were Sir John and Sir Humphrey; the former, Lord Mayor of that city
in 1704, the latter, in 1731 and 1740. The same coat of arms is also
retained by the branch of the Parsons family now long resident in
Barbadoes.

Langley in Buckinghamshire was long a seat of a family of the name,
but they seem to have abandoned it about the end of the 17th century
for a residence in Nottinghamshire. The first of this family whose
descendants we can trace appears to have been

RALPH, of Northampton, who had a son

JOHN, who lived at Boveney, Co. Bucks, who had by his wife, dau. of
---- Cutler, Esq.,

JOHN of Boveney and Langley, who m. Elisabeth, the sole heiress of
Sir John Kidderminster, and had,

  1. Charles, b. 1625, d. without issue.
  2. William, and three daughters.

This WILLIAM, the only surviving son, m. Elisabeth, dau. and heiress
of Sir Lawrence Parsons, by whom he had two sons; one a Colonel, d.
without issue, and John, his successor. WILLIAM PARSONS (the father)
was made a baronet by Charles II. for his adherence to the cause
of his father, Charles I. He was somewhat conspicuous during the
_interregnum_, as may be inferred from his granting a pass to one
of the gentlemen of the privy chamber, to proceed to Ireland. The
gentleman, however, having been taken by the parliament officers,
was, Carte says, put to the rack, "to make him confess." This
circumstance is supposed to have given Butler the ground he has taken
in these lines in his _Hudibras_:

      "Rack 'em until they do confess,
      Impeach of treason whom they please,
      And most perfidiously condemn,
      Those that engaged their lives for them."

SIR THOMAS PARSONS of Great Milton in Oxfordshire, (before
mentioned,) m. in 1614, Catharine, a dau. of Edward Radcliff of
London, son of Alderman Radcliff, by whom he had ROBERT, THOMAS,
RICHARD, ANTHONY, and six daughters. He was the son of THOMAS of the
same place, by his first wife, Judith Garbrand of the city of Oxford,
who also had a daughter Amy, m. to Richard Alworth of Turford,
Buckinghamshire. His second wife was Sarah, dau. of Edmund Waller of
Costell, by whom he had three sons, JOHN, EDMUND, FRANCIS, and two
daughters, Elisabeth, m. Anthony Radcliff of Chalford, Co. Bucks, and
Ann, wife of Richard Baldwin of Beaconsfield, in the same county.

The grandfather of SIR THOMAS was THOMAS of Great Milton, who m.
Catharine, dau. of Hester Sydenham, by whom he had THOMAS, HUGH, and
RICHARD.

RICHARD m. Miss ---- Pierpont, and had a son JOHN of London, who m.
1. a dau. of Joshua Whistler, by whom he had a daughter Catharine;
he m. 2. Mary Gualter of London. Some of this family were among the
early emigrants to America.

The first of the name we find in New England is JOSEPH, Springfield,
1636, where he appears as a witness to the deed from the Indians
of the lands of that place and vicinity to William Pynchon and
others, on the fifteenth of July. There appear, however, soon after,
at the same place, HUGH and BENJAMIN. And family tradition relates
that JOSEPH and BENJAMIN were brothers, that they were born in
Great Torrington, near Exeter, Devonshire, England, who, with other
children, accompanied their father to New England, about the year
1630. It is probable that they came over with Mr. Pynchon.

  (1)   JOSEPH PARSONS,^1 as has been mentioned, was at Springfield in
                 1636, where he probably remained until 1655, in which
                 year he removed to Northampton. On the records of the
                 latter town is this entry: "Joseph Parsons did at a Court
                 in Northampton, holden March, 1662, testifie that he was
                 a witness to a deed of the lands at Springfield, and a
                 bargain betweene the Indians and Mr. Pynchon, dated
                 July 15, 1636, for 18 fathoms of wampom, 18 coates, 18
                 hatchets, 18 hoes, 18 knives."

                 As soon as the town was incorporated he was elected
                 "Townsman," (or selectman,) though he subsequently
                 paid the town 20 shillings not to elect him to any office
                 during the second year of its incorporation. After that
                 we find him serving the town as "Townsman" for seven
                 years. He was a principal founder of Northampton, was
                 extensively engaged in the fur trade, and acquired a large
                 estate.

                 He m. Mary, dau. of Thomas Bliss of Hartford, (afterwards
                 of Northampton,) Nov. 26, 1646. They resided in
                 Northampton till 1679, in which year they returned to
                 Springfield, where they both died. Among the records
                 of deaths of that town we find, "Cornet Joseph Parsons
                 was sick and died, Oct. 9, 1683." She outlived him
                 near 19 years, dying Jan. 29, 1712. Their children were,

  (2)   I.     Joseph,^2 b. 1647, m. Elisabeth, dau. of Elder John Strong,
  (11)           whose father was ancestor of the late Caleb Strong,
                 Governor of Massachusetts. He d. Nov. 29, 1729. She
                 was b. at Windsor, Ct., Feb. 24, 1648, d. at Northampton,
                 May 11, 1736, a. 88.

  (3)   II.    John,^2 b. 1649, m. Sarah, dau. of Lieut. ---- Clarke, at
                 Northampton, Dec. 23, 1675.

  (4)   III.   Samuel,^2 b. 1652, settled at Durham, Ct., 1706.
  (21)

  (5)   IV.    Ebenezer,^2 b. 1655, served against the Indians in Philip's
                 war, and was killed fighting under Capt. Beers at
                 Northfield, Sept. 8, 1675, with his commander and many
                 more. He was the first white child born in Northampton.

  (6)   V.     Jonathan,^2 b. June 6, 1657, d. Oct. 19, 1684.

  (7)   VI.    David,^2 b. April 30, 1659.

  (8)   VII.   Mary,^2 b. June 27, 1661, m. 1. Joseph Ashley of
                 Springfield, Oct. 15, 1685; 2. Joseph Williston, March 2,
                 1699.

  (9)   VIII.  Hannah,^2 b. 1663, m. Rev. Pelatiah Glover of Springfield,
                 Jan. 6, 1687.

  (10)  IX.    Abigail,^2 b. Sept. 3, 1666, m. John Colton, Feb. 19, 1689,
                 d. soon after, leaving a dau. who m. Francis Griswold of
                 Windsor, Ct.

  (11)  X.     Hester,^2 b. 1672, m. Joseph Smith of Greenwich, Ct.

Joseph,^3 (2) who m. Elisabeth Strong, had,

  (12)  I.     Joseph,^3 b. June 28, 1671, graduated at H. C. 1697, being
  (26)           the first of the name who had graduated there. He m.
                 Elisabeth, dau. of Dr. Benjamin Thompson of Roxbury,
                 Ms., (who was son of Rev. William Thompson of Braintree,
                 Ms.,) in 1701. He settled in the ministry, 1st, at
                 Lebanon, Ct., 2nd, at Salisbury, Ms., in 1718, where he
                 d. March 13, 1739, a. 69. His wife d. at Kensington, N. H.

  (13)  II.    John,^3 b. Jan. 11, 1674.

  (14)  III.   Ebenezer,^3 b. Dec. 11, 1675, m. Mercy Stebbins, Dec. 15,
                 1703, d. 1744.

  (15)  IV.    Elisabeth,^3 b. Feb. 3, 1678.

  (16)  V.     David,^3 b. Feb. 1, 1680, at Northampton, grad. H. C. 1705,
                 minister of Malden, 1708, of Leicester, 1721, where he
                 d. 1737, having been dismissed two years before. His
                 son David^4 graduated at Harvard College in 1729, and
                 was ordained as the first pastor of the church in Amherst,
                 Nov. 6, 1739. He m. Eunice Wells of Wethersfield,
                 Ct., had 9 children, and d. 1781, a. 69. He was the
                 father of the Rev. David^5 Parsons, D. D., of Amherst,
                 who was b. Jan. 28, 1749, H. C. 1771, settled Oct. 2,
                 1782, d. 1823, a. 74. Dr. Parsons had eleven children;
                 namely, Ezekiel Williams,^6 a physician in Colchester,
                 Ct.; David^6 of Amherst, an artisan; Prudence Stoddard,^6
                 m. Rev. Marcus Smith,^6 Rensselaerville, N. Y.;
                 Thomas,^6 a merchant, New York city, d. a. 41; Harriet,^6
                 m. 1. Rev. Royal Washburn, and 2. Hon. David Mack of
                 Amherst; Francis,^6 an attorney at Hartford, Ct., and
                 Judge of the Court of Common Pleas; Mary,^6 m. Rev.
                 William Williams, formerly a clergyman, but now a
                 practising physician at Salem; Caroline,^6 d. a. 22;
                 Sophia,^6 m. Rev. Silas Aiken of Boston; William,^6 a
                 physician of Canaan, Ct., d. a. 27; and James,^6 a
                 graduate and an instructor of youth at Savannah, Ga.,
                 d. a. 29.

  (17)  VI.    Josiah,^3 b. Jan. 2, 1682, m. Sarah Sheldon, June 22, 1710,
                 d. April 12, 1768, a. 86.

  (18)  VII.   Daniel,^3 b. Aug., 1685, at Northampton, m. Abigail Cooley
                 of Springfield, June 17, 1709, resided in Springfield.

  (19)  VIII.  Moses,^3 b. Jan. 15, 1687, at Northampton, m. Abigail Ball
                 of Springfield, Jan. 20, 1710, about which time he removed
                 to Durham, Ct.

  (20)  IX.    Abigail,^3 b. Jan. 1, 1690.

  (21)  X.     Noah,^3 b. Aug. 15, 1692, left descendants.

Samuel,^2 (4) who settled in Durham, Ct, had,

  (22)  I.     Timothy,^3 b. 1694, d. Jan. 28, 1772.

  (23)  II.    Simeon,^3 b. 1701, d. Jan. 6, 1784.

  (24)  III.   Phinehas,^3 b. 1703, d. May 6, 1724.

  (25)  IV.    Aaron.^3

  (26)  V.     Ithamar,^3 b. 1707, d. Jan. 21, 1786. He and probably all
                 his brothers left male posterity. David^4 and Nathan,^4
                 sons of Ithamar, removed to Granville, Ms., about 1760.
                 David^4 of Granville, Ms., had a son Joel,^5 who was
                 father to the Hon. Judge Anson V.^6 Parsons of
                 Philadelphia.

Joseph,^3 (12) who m. Elisabeth Thompson, had,

  (27)  I.     Joseph,^4 b. in Salisbury, 1702, grad. H. C. 1720, ordained
                 at Bradford, Ms., June 8, 1726, d. there May 4, 1765, a.
                 63. His wife was Frances, dau. of John Usher, Lieut. Gov.
                 of New Hampshire, who was son of Hezekiah Usher,
                 by Elisabeth, dau. of the Rev. Zachariah Symmes of
                 Charlestown, Ms. His publications were an Election
                 Sermon, an Ordination, and an Artillery Election Sermon,
                 1744. Their children were, 1. Frances,^5 b. 1730, d. at
                 Epping, N. H., Oct. 7, 1808, unmarried, a. 78. 2.
                 Elisabeth,^5 b. 1731, d. 1733. 3. Joseph,^5 b. Oct. 5,
                 1733, minister of Brookfield, Ms., d. Jan. 17, 1771, a.
                 38. His wife was Sarah, dau. of Rev. Warham Williams of
                 Waltham, Ms., by Abigail, dau. of Col. George Leonard of
                 Norton. Rev. Warham Williams was son of Rev. John Williams
                 of Deerfield, the "Redeemed Captive," and grandson of
                 Deacon Samuel Williams of Roxbury and Rev. Eleazer
                 Mather of Northampton, great-grandson of Robert Williams
                 and Deacon William Park of Roxbury. 4. Thomas,^5
                 b. 1735, who went to Parsonsfield, Me. 5. Samuel,^5 b.
                 1737, of Cornville, Me., d. 1807. 6. Dr. John,^5 b. 1740,
                 of S. Berwick, Me., d. 1775. 7. William,^5 b. 1741, d.
                 1742. 8. William,^5 of Alfred, Me., b. 1743, d. Aug. 4,
                 1826, a. 83. 9. Sarah,^5 b. 1745, d. at Parsonsfield,
                 1800. 10. Edward,^5 b. 1747, went in the Revolutionary
                 army, as Adjutant in Col. Poor's regiment, and d. 1776.

                 Rev. Joseph Parsons^5 of Brookfield left an only dau.,
                 who m. Samuel Pitkin, Esq., of E. Hartford, Ct. William,^5
                 who d. at Alfred, Me., had nine children, among whom
                 was Usher,^6 M. D., of Providence, R. I., a professor in
                 Brown University, a surgeon in the war of 1812, and in
                 Perry's fleet at the battle of Lake Erie. He m. Mary,
                 dau. of Rev. Abiel Holmes, D. D., author of "American
                 Annals." Dr. Parsons is himself author of several medical
                 treatises of great merit.

                 Thomas^5 was the proprietor of Parsonsfield, Me., and
                 left a numerous posterity--19 children, by two wives.
                 His first wife was Mary Poor.

  (28)  II.    Samuel,^4 b. at Salisbury, Ms., 1707, grad. H. C. 1730,
                 ordained at Rye, N. H., Nov. 3, 1736, m. Mary, only child
                 of Samuel Jones, Esq., of Boston, Oct. 9, 1739, d. Jan. 4,
                 1789, a. 82, in the 53rd year of his ministry.
                 The grandfather of Mary Jones was Capt. John Adams of
                 Boston, grandson of Henry of Braintree, who was among the
                 first settlers of Massachusetts, and from whom a numerous
                 race of the name are descended, including two Presidents
                 of the United States. Gov. Samuel Adams (the patriot)
                 was cousin to Mary who m. Samuel Jones.

                 Rev. Samuel Parsons^5 had four children; namely, 1.
                 Mary, m. Rev. John Tucke of Epsom, whose dau. Love
                 M. m. Simeon Drake, late of Concord, N. H. 2. Joseph,
                 M. D., a captain in the Revolutionary army, who d. in
                 Rye, N. H., in 1832, a. 86. 3. Hannah, d. unmarried. 4.
                 Betsey, m. Lieut. Samuel Wallace of Rye, whose dau.
                 m. the late Isaac Waldron, Esq., of Portsmouth, N. H.

  (29)  III.   William,^4 b. at Salisbury, April 21, 1716, grad. H. C.
                 1735, settled over the church in South Hampton, N. H.,
                 1743, from which he was dismissed after a ministry of
                 about twenty years. He m. Sarah Burnham of Durham, N. H.,
                 May 16, 1743. In 1763, he removed to Gilmanton with
                 his family, that town being then a wilderness, though by
                 the end of the year about twenty families had arrived
                 and commenced settlements.[22] Mr. Parsons was
                 employed by the proprietors to preach to the inhabitants.
                 He also instructed the youth of the place, and continued
                 these services after his labors as a minister ceased. He
                 d. Jan. 31, 1796, and his wife followed him to the grave,
                 Feb. 28, 1797. His children were Sarah, William,
                 Elisabeth, John, Joseph, and Ebenezer. Elisabeth m. Gen.
                 Joseph Badger, Jr., who was the father of Hon. William
                 Badger of Gilmanton, late Governor of New Hampshire.

  (30)  IV.    Elisabeth,^4 b. 1718, m. Rev Jeremiah Fogg of Kensington,
                 N. H. She d. March 5, 1779, a. 61. He d. Dec. 1, 1789, in
                 the 78th year of his age, and the 52nd of his ministry. A
                 descendant of Rev. Mr. Fogg is the consort of Rev. James
                 Farnsworth of Boxboro', Ms.

  (31)  V.     John,^4 b. Oct. 15, 1725, d. Sophomore in H. C., Oct. 28,
                 1740.

       *       *       *       *       *

  (1)   BENJAMIN PARSONS,^1 younger brother of Cornet Joseph, whose
                 descendants are above traced, was like him among the
                 first settlers of Springfield, and a prominent citizen, a
                 gentleman of exemplary moral character, of great worth
                 and respectability. He was Deacon of the church, and a
                 chief instrument in its formation in Springfield, as
                 appears from his correspondence with the Rev. Dr. Increase
                 Mather. In the civil affairs of the town, no one held
                 more responsible offices, or discharged them with greater
                 fidelity.

                 Mr. Parsons m. 1st, Sarah, dau. of Richard Vore of
                 Windsor, who was a member of the Rev. John Warham's
                 church in Dorchester, and accompanied him to
                 Windsor in 1635. She d. at Springfield, Jan. 1, 1676.
                 He m. 2nd, Sarah, relict of John Leonard, Feb. 21, 1677.
                 Her father having settled in Springfield in 1639. Deacon
                 Parsons d. August 24, 1689, and his wife in 1690.

                 His children by his first marriage were,

  (2)   I.     Sarah,^2 b. at Springfield, (as were probably all his
                 children,) Aug. 18, 1656, m. James Dorchester.

  (3)   II.    Benjamin,^2 b. Sept. 15, 1658, m. Sarah, dau. of John Keep
  (10)           of Springfield, Jan. 17, 1683. He d. at Enfield, Ct., Dec.
                 28, 1728, a. 60. She d. July 8, 1729. Her mother was
                 Sarah, dau. of John Leonard of Springfield, and her
                 father was killed by the Indians at Long Meadow, 1676;
                 probably on the 26th of March; as on that day, six men
                 were killed at Springfield, three of them near Pecowsick

                 brook, as they were passing from Long Meadow to the
                 town, with an escort under Capt. Nixon. The circumstance
                 was long perpetuated by the following distich,
                 but with how much truth we pretend not to say. It is
                 this:

                   "Seven Indians, and one without a gun,
                   Caused Captain Nixon and forty men to run."

  (4)   III.   Mary,^2 b. Dec. 10, 1660, at Springfield, Jan. 27, 1662.

  (5)   IV.    Abigail,^2 b. Jan. 6, 1662, m. 1. John Mun, Dec. 23, 1680;
                 2. John Richards, Oct. 7, 1686.

  (6)   V.     Samuel,^2 b. Oct. 10, 1666, m. Hannah Hitchcock, March 18,
  (14)           1683, d. in Enfield, Feb., 1736, a. 70.

  (7)   VI.    Ebenezer,^2 b. Nov. 17, 1668, m. Margaret, dau. of Samuel
  (24)           and Katherine Marshfield of Springfield, and
                 granddaughter of Thomas Marshfield, who came from
                 Exeter, England, with Rev. Mr. Warham, and settled in
                 Windsor, Ct. Mr. Parsons d. at Springfield, Sept. 23,
                 1752, a. 84. His wife d. June 12, 1758, a. 87, as is to be
                 seen on her tombstone in West Springfield, together with
                 these lines:

                          The hope of life immortal
                          bloom, Dispel y^e grave's
                              most hideous gloom
                          Christ on y^e Resurection
                     day his Saints with glory shall array.

                 Mr. Parsons was highly respected, was Deacon of the
                 Congregational church in West Springfield _fifty-two_
                 years, which terminated at his decease.

  (8)   VII.   Mary,^2 b. Dec. 17, 1670, m. Thomas Richards, Oct. 21, 1691.

  (9)   VIII.  Hezekiah,^2 b. Nov. 24, 1673, m. Hannah, dau. of Eliakim
                 Cooley of Springfield, Feb. 20, 1701. [There is a curious
                 entry on the Springfield records concerning this
                 match.] They resided in Enfield and Suffield, Ct. He
                 d. July 11, 1748.

  (10)  IX.    Joseph,^2 b. Dec., 1675, m. Abigail Phelps, Sept. 15, 1697.
                 He resided in West Springfield.

               Benjamin,^2 (3) of Enfield, who m. Sarah Keep, had,

  (11)  I.     John,^3 b. in Enfield, Nov. 19, 1684, d. there May 9, 1717,
                 a. 33.

  (12)  II.    Benjamin,^3 b. March 1, 1688, was of Enfield, Ct., where
                 he d. unmarried, July 4, 1734, a. 46.

  (13) III.    Christopher,^3 b. Jan. 28, 1691, m. Mary Pease of Enfield,
                 April 22, 1714, d. Sept. 10, 1747, a. 56. They had twelve
                 children, born between March 1, 1715, and Dec. 23, 1740;
                 eight sons and four daughters. The sons were John,^4
                 Christopher,^4 Benjamin,^4 Joseph,^4 Ebenezer,^4
                 Benjamin,^4 Jabez,^4 Noah,^4 John,^4 m. Ann Colton at
                 Enfield and had John,^5 Ebenezer,^5 Jabez,^5 and Oliver,^5
                 who d. at Peekskill in 1777, in the Revolutionary war.

                 Christopher,^4 m. Mary, dau. of Samuel Pease, and had
                 among other children, Asahel^5 and Christopher.^5

                 Benjamin,^4 m. Sophia Pease, and had Simeon,^5 Mary,^5
                 and John.^5 He lived at Enfield.

                 Joseph,^4 m. Rebecca Allen of Enfield, Ct., and had
                 Joseph,^5 and Jabez,^5 and three daughters. Joseph^5 had
                 a large family in Enfield.

  (14)  V.     Sarah,^3 of whom we have no account but of her death, July
                 8, 1729.

Samuel,^2 (6) of Enfield, who m. Hannah, dau. of Luke Hitchcock of
Springfield, had,

  (15)  I.     John,^3 b. July 23, 1693, m. Thankful Root of Enfield, June
                 20, 1716. They had seven children, among whom were
                 John,^4 Moses,^4 and Thomas.^4

  (16)  II.    Luke,^3 b. Jan. 4, 1696, m. Sarah Osborn, Sept. 13, 1716, at
                 Enfield. They had seven children, one of whom was
                 a son, Luke,^4 b. April 17, 1724.

  (17)  III.   Hezekiah,^3 b. April 13, 1698, m. Rebecca Burt, Nov. 15,
                 1723, d. 1751. He had, besides other children, Hezekiah,^4
                 David,^4 Eldad,^4 and Charles.^4

  (18)  IV.    Hannah,^3 b. Aug. 2, 1700, m. Nath'l Horton, March 3, 1720.

  (19)  V.     Nathaniel,^3 b. Dec. 28, 1702, m. Mary Pease, Dec. 18, 1725.
                 He had Nathaniel,^4 Chadwell,^4 who m. Ruth, dau. of
                 Josiah Ward of Enfield, and Stephen.^4

  (20)  VI.    Moses,^3 b. June 10, 1707, m. Hannah, dau. of Samuel
                 Stebbins of Springfield, Jan. 13, 1736, d. at Enfield,
                 1786. He had 8 children, 4 sons and 4 daughters. Warham^4
                 m. Mary Pease, and had, besides other children, Martin,^5
                 Warham,^5 and Moses.^5

  (21)  VII.   Miriam,^3 b. April 9, 1710, m. Caleb Jones, Nov. 10, 1730.

  (22)  VIII.  Samuel,^3 b. Nov. 23, 1690, (at Springfield) m. Abigail
                 Randall, Dec. 4, 1713, and had sons, Samuel^4 and
                 Aaron.^4

  (23)  IX.    Sarah,^3 b. Nov. 10, 1704, m. Thomas Jones, June 10, 1742.

  (24)  X.     Daniel, of whom, as yet, nothing appears.

Ebenezer,^2 (7) of West Springfield, who m. Margaret Marshfield, had,

  (25)  I.     Ebenezer,^3 b. at Springfield, Jan. 12, 1691, m. Martha Ely,
                 1714, d. 1742, leaving 10 children; namely, Martha,^4 m.
                 John Taylor; Eunice,^4 m. Daniel H. Phelps of Upper
                 Housatonick; Margaret,^4 m. Daniel Foot of Colchester;
                 Mary,^4 m. William Clark of Colchester; Diana^4;
                 Ebenezer^4; Naomi,^4 m. Asaph Leonard; Stephen^4;
                 Abigail^4; and Seth.^4

  (26)  II.    Margaret,^3 b. Sept. 19, 1693, m. Rev. Daniel Elmer of
                 Newark, N. J.

  (27)  III.   Jonathan,^3 b. July 15, 1695. Drowned, July 1, 1703.

  (28)  IV.    Benjamin,^3 b. Dec. 15, 1696, m. Martha Bliss, Aug. 15,
                 1723; went to Kingston, thence to Palmer, Ms., d. at
                 Swansey, in the house of his son, Aaron.^4 His wife d. at
                 Palmer, Ms., July 17, 1760, a. 56. They had 12 children.
                 Eleanor,^4 m. Elizur Fitch of Monson; David^4 of Palmer,
                 Ms.; Tabitha,^4 m. Robert McMaster of Palmer, 1766;
                 Moses,^4 d. at the Havanna in the French war; Israel,^4 d.
                 in the same war, at Fort Harmer; Aaron^4 of Swansey;
                 Jonathan,^4 m. Mary, dau. Deacon Joseph Merrick of
                 Springfield, d. at W. Springfield, May 2, 1810, a. 75. She
                 d. March 15, 1817, a. 84. Joshua,^4 m. Eleanor Allen,
                 lived in Palmer, Ms. Abigail,^4 m. Ebenezer Bliss of
                 Belchertown. Martha,^4 m. Daniel Worthington, Vt.;
                 Benjamin,^4 d. in the French war.

  (29)  V.     Caleb,^3 b. Dec. 27, 1699, m. Miriam Williston, Oct. 4,
                 1749. She d. at W. Springfield, July 24, 1760, a. 53,
                 leaving one son, Caleb,^4 b. 1755, d. 1760.

  (30)  VI.    Sarah,^3 b. Feb. 4, 1703, m. Pelatiah Hitchcock of
                 Brookfield, Ms.

  (31)  VII.   Jonathan,^3 b. at Springfield, Nov. 30, 1705, grad. at Y. C.
  (33)           1729, studied theology with Rev. Elisha Williams,
                 President of Y. C., and Rev. Jonathan Edwards of
                 Northampton, ordained at Lyme, March 17, 1730, m. Phebe,
                 dau. of John Griswold of Lyme, and sister of Gov. Matthew
                 Griswold.

                 In March, 1746, Rev. Mr. Parsons removed to Newburyport,
                 Ms., where he preached until his decease. He
                 d. July 19, 1776, a. 71, and was interred in a tomb under
                 his pulpit, by the side of Rev. George Whitefield, who
                 had died at his house not long before. His wife d. at
                 Newburyport also, Dec. 26, 1770. He m. 2. Mrs. Lydia
                 Clarkson, widow of Andrew Clarkson, Esq., of Portsmonth,
                 N. H. She survived him, and d. April 30, 1778.

                 Mr. Parsons was author of several occasional and other
                 sermons in pamphlet form, and two volumes of sixty
                 sermons in 8vo., advertised as in press at Newburyport,
                 in 1781, by J. Mycall. As extended memoirs have been
                 published of him in several works, it is unnecessary to
                 be more particular at this time.

  (32)  VIII.  Abigail,^3 b. Oct. 21, 1708, m. Thomas Day of Springfield,
                 March 19, 1735.

  (33)  IX.    Katherine,^3 b. Oct. 16, 1715, m. Aaron Taylor of Upper
                 Housatonick.

Rev. Jonathan Parsons^3 (31) of Newburyport had 13 children, 6 of
whom d. in infancy. Those who married were,

  (34)  I.     Marshfield,^4 b. Feb. 7, 1733, lived at Lyme, Ct., d. there
                 Jan. 13, 1813, a. 80. He m. 1. Lois, dau. of Richard Wait,
                 Sen., of Lyme. He m. 2. Abigail Marvin, Nov. 20, 1766.
                 She d. Aug. 22, 1782, a. 35. He m. 3. Abigail Waterman
                 of Norwich, Jan. 15, 1783. She d. March 14, 1793, a.
                 53. He m. 4. Phebe Griffin, Oct. 10, 1793, widow, and
                 dau. of Pardon Taber of Lyme. He had children only
                 by his first wife. His son John^5 m. Joanna, dau. of
                 Joseph Mather of Lyme. By a second wife, Lois, dau. of
                 Richard Wait, Jr., he had 12 children.

  (35)  II.    Jonathan,^4 b. April 25, 1735, m. Hannah, dau. of Samuel
                 Gyles of Salisbury, Aug. 26, 1756. They had 10 children,
                 4 of whom were sons, and all d. unmarried. Elisabeth^5
                 m. 1. Samuel Chandler. 2. John Mycall. Hannah^5
                 m. Abraham Jackson, and had Ellen^6 and Isaac Rand^6;
                 the latter d. July 27, 1842, at Copenhagen, while U. S.
                 Chargé d'Affaires, a. 37. He m. Louisa C. Carroll of
                 Philadelphia, granddaughter of Charles Carroll of
                 Carrolton, Md., one of the signers of the Declaration of
                 Independence.

  (36)  III.   Samuel Holden,^4 b. May 14, 1737, at Lyme, Ct., grad.
                 H. C. 1756; in 1781 he received an honorary degree from
                 Y. C., studied law at Lyme in the office of his uncle,
                 Gov. Matthew Griswold, admitted to the bar in New
                 London county, 1759, settled at Lyme, was elected
                 Representative to the General Assembly in 1762, and
                 successively for eighteen sessions, which brought him
                 to the year 1774, when he received the appointment of
                 King's Attorney, and removed to New London. In 1775
                 he was appointed Colonel of the sixth Connecticut
                 regiment, and a Brigadier-General by Congress in 1776,
                 Major-General in 1780. In 1779 he succeeded Gen.
                 Putnam in the command of the Connecticut line of the
                 Continental army, and served in the Revolutionary army
                 as Major-General until the close of the war. He was
                 an active member of the Convention of Connecticut in
                 January, 1788, which ratified the Constitution of the
                 United States, and was elected President of the "Society
                 of Cincinnati" of Connecticut. In 1785 he was appointed
                 by Congress a Commissioner to treat with the Indians
                 at Miami. In 1788 he was appointed and commissioned
                 by President Washington, first Judge of the North West
                 Territory, which included the present States of Ohio,
                 Indiana, Illinois, and Michigan; and while holding that
                 office, was, in 1789, appointed by the State of
                 Connecticut a Commissioner to hold a treaty with the
                 Wyandots and other tribes of Indians on Lake Erie, for
                 extinguishing the aboriginal title to the "Connecticut
                 Western Reserve." While returning to his residence at
                 Marietta from this service, he was drowned by the
                 overturning of his boat in descending the rapids of the
                 Big Beaver river, Nov. 17, 1789, a. 52.

                 Gen. Parsons m. Mehetabel, dau. of Richard Mather
                 of Lyme, (a lineal descendant of Rev. Richard Mather of
                 Dorchester,) Sept. 10, 1761. She was b. in Lyme, March
                 7, 1743, d. Aug. 7, 1802, and was buried at Middletown,
                 Ct. The children of Gen. Parsons were, 1. William
                 Walter,^5 b. July 5, 1762, m. Esther, dau. of Thompson
                 Phillips of Middletown, d. Jan. 24, 1801, leaving
                 children, Esther Phillips,^6 m. to William Hammet of
                 Bangor, and Thomas,^6 who d. young. 2. Lucia,^5 b. Nov. 8,
                 1761, m. Hon. Stephen Titus Hosmer, Chief-Justice of
                 Connecticut. They had 4 sons and 6 daughters. All the sons
                 d. young, except Oliver Ellsworth,^6 who m. Ann P. Hawes
                 of N. York. 3. Thomas,^5 who d. young. 4. ENOCH,^5
                 whose biography was given in the April number of this
                 work. He was b. Nov. 5, 1769, m. 1. Mary Wyley
                 Sullivan, May 19, 1795. She was dau. of John Sullivan
                 of London, and b. in Philadelphia, Nov. 9, 1772, d.
                 at Middletown, July 2, 1807. He m. 2. Mrs. Sarah
                 Rosecrants, dau. of Nehemiah Hubbard of Middletown, by
                 whom he had one son, Henry Ethelbert,^6 who m. Abby
                 C, dau. of John Welles of Ann Arbor, Michigan; and a
                 dau., Mary Sullivan,^6 m. James, son of Robert Dickson
                 of London, Eng., d. at Philadelphia, Dec. 15, 1841. The
                 next of the children of Gen. Parsons was, 5. Mehetabel,^5
                 b. Dec. 21, 1772. m. William B. Hall, M. D., of
                 Middletown, d. Nov. 1, 1823, a. 51, leaving, 1. William
                 Brenton^6; 2. Samuel Holden Parsons^6 of Binghampton,
                 N. Y. 6. Phebe,^5 b. Jan. 25, 1775. at N. London, m.
                 Samuel Tiffen, had a dau.,^6 m. to L. T. Clark of
                 Philadelphia. 7. Samuel Holden,^5 b. Dec. 31, 1777, m.
                 Esther, dau. of Giles Page of Middletown, d. in the West
                 Indies, leaving a dau., Mary Ann,^6 m. to William C.
                 Hammet of Howland, Me. 8. Margaret Ann.^5 9. Margaret,^5
                 b. 1785, m. 1. Stephen Hubbard of Middletown, who settled
                 at Champion, N. Y., where he d. 1812. 2. Alfred Lathrop^6
                 of Champion and W. Carthage, N. Y.

  (37)  IV.    Thomas,^4 b. April 28, 1739, m. 1. Mary Gibson, and had one
                 son, Jonathan G.,^5 who d. without issue. He m. 2. Sarah
                 Sawyer of Newbury, and had, 1. Sarah,^5 m. to Gorham
                 Parsons, late a merchant of Boston, whose father was
                 brother to the late JUDGE THEOPHILUS PARSONS of Boston,
                 descended from that branch of the family settled at
                 Gloucester, Ms., the ancestor of which was Jeffrey
                 Parsons, whose pedigree we propose to trace hereafter; 2.
                 Ann,^5 m. Fitz-William Sargent of Gloucester, Ms.; 3.
                 Mary,^5 m. Ignatins Sargent; 4. ----,^5 m. Samuel Torrey
                 of Boston.

  (38)  V.     Phebe,^4 b. at Newburyport, March 6, 1748, m. Capt. Ebenezer
                 Lane of Boston, had no children, d. 1781.

  (39)  VI.    Lucia,^4 b. at Newburyport, Dec. 23, 1752, m. Capt. Joseph
                 Tappan of that place, d. there in 1815, a. 63, leaving 7
                 children; 1. Thomas P.^5; 2. Phebe Griswold^5; 3. Sarah^5;
                 4, John Pike^5; 5. Richard^5; 6. Joseph^5; and 7. Thomas
                 Parsons.^5

  (40)  VII.   Lydia, 4 b. April 3, 1755, m. Moses, son of Hon. Jonathan
                 Greenleaf of Newburyport, Sept. 17, 1776, and had
                 children. 1. Moses,^5 2. Clarina Parsons,^5 3. Ebenezer,^5
                 4. Simon,^5 b. Dec. 5, 1783, the distinguished attorney
                 and professor of law in II. C., 5. Jonathan,^5 a clergyman
                 of Brooklyn, N. Y, and author of a memoir of Rev. Jonathan
                 Parsons in the American Quarterly Register, also
                 of Ecclesiastical Sketches of Maine.

       *       *       *       *       *

HUGH PARSONS appears on the town records of Springfield, 27. 8,
(27 Oct.) 1645. How long before that he was resident there does
not appear, though it is quite probable he was among the first
inhabitants. Whether HUGH were a brother of Benjamin and Joseph, or
what relationship he may have borne to them, nothing has yet come
to our knowledge to enable us to determine; yet he was probably the
older brother of those, and so we shall consider him until we are
otherwise assured. Mr. Parsons married _Mary Lewis_ on the date above
mentioned, by whom he had,

  I. SAMUEL, b. Oct. 4, 1648, d. Oct. 4, 1649.
  II. JOSHUA, b. Oct. 26, 1650, d. June 4, 1651.

About this point of time began the troubles and trials of this
devoted family, and here, on the Springfield town records stands the
following sad entry:

  "_Joshua Parsons_, son of Hugh was killed by Mary Parsons his wife,
  4. 1. 1651."

Singular as it may now seem, and notwithstanding the above entry,
fair and legible at this day upon the records, an attempt was soon
after made to throw the cause of the death of the son upon the
father, and that he had effected it by witchcraft! We will not now
enlarge on this subject, as we propose to publish at some future time
an article on witchcraft in our country, and its unhappy effects.


P. S. We originally intended to have given in this number the
genealogy of the branch of the family of Parsons settled at
Gloucester, but for want of room, and some materials, are obliged
to defer it to a future one; meanwhile we hope the descendants of
JEFFREY PARSONS, (the progenitor of this branch,) will forward us
all the facts they possess concerning it, that it may be rendered as
complete as possible. For the information of those concerned, it may
be proper to state, that we have a copy of the pedigree which was in
the possession of the late William Parsons, Esq., of Boston, which,
though extensive as it respects the names of the descendants, is
very defective in dates and names of places. In these particulars we
especially want information.




ANCIENT BIBLE IN POSSESSION OF WIDOW LUCY WATERS OF SHARON, MS.


It is said that this Bible was brought from England to America by the
Pilgrim Fathers, who landed from the ship Mayflower, at Plymouth,
Ms., December 22, A. D. 1620.

The title-page of the Testament[23] part of this Bible is in the
following words, viz.--


    =NEW TESTAMENT=
    OF
    OUR LORD JESUS CHRIST.

    Confered diligently with the Greeke and best approved
    translations, in divers Languages.

    Imprinted at London by the Deputies of Christopher Barker, Printer
    to the Queens most excellent Majesty.

    =A. D. 1592.=

    _Cum gratia privilegio Regiæ Maiestatis._


_Family Record in the Bible._

We Elisha Bradford and Bathshua Le-brocke, were married, September,
y^e 7th, Anno Domini 1718. (?)

Account of the births, of all our children.

  Our Daughter Hannah, was born April y^e 10th       1719
  Joseph was born December y^e 7th day               1721
  Silvanus was born July y^e 6th day                 1723
  Nehemiah was born July y^e 27th day                1724
  Laurana was born March y^e 26th day                1726
  Mary was born August y^e 1st day                   1727
  Elisha was born October y^e 6th day                1729
  Lois was born January y^e 30th day                 1730-31
  Deborah[24] was born November y^e 18th day         1732
  Allis was born November y^e 3d day                 1734
  Azenath was born September y^e 15th day            1736
  Carpenter was born February y^e 7th day            1738-9
  Abigail was born June y^e 20th day                 1741
  Chloe was born sixth day of April                  1743
  Content was born twenty-first day of May           1745
  Content dec^d May 22                         1745
  Silvanus dec^d the twelfth day of July       1723

The foregoing title-page and Family Register were transcribed for and
at the request of Alden Bradford, Esq., Feb. 22, 1842,

  By his humble servant,
  WILLIAM ELLIS.




BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICES OF PHYSICIANS IN ROCHESTER, N. H.

  [For the account of the following medical gentlemen we are
  indebted to Dr. Samuel Pray.]


_Dr. James Jackson_ was the first physician who settled in Rochester.
He went from Connecticut, but in what year he went and how long he
lived in the town, is not known.

_Dr. James How_ was the son of Deacon How of Methuen, and brother of
David How, Esq., of Haverhill, Ms. He went to Rochester about the
year 1777, and practised in his profession till near the time of his
death, in 1807. He was a Representative to the State Legislature
several years, and was elected a member of the N. H. Medical Society
in 1791, soon after the Charter was granted. He was also surgeon's
mate in the army of the Revolution. He died at the age of 53.

_Dr. Samuel Pray_ was born at South Berwick, Me., July 3, 1769. He
received his preparatory education at Dummer Academy, Newbury, Ms.,
in the years 1784, '85, and '86, studied medicine with Dr. Jacob
Kittredge of Dover, three years, and commenced the practice of his
profession in September, 1792, at Rochester, where he has resided
about fifty-five years. He united with a number of physicians in
the old County of Strafford in 1811, who constituted the Strafford
District of the N. H. Medical Society, of which he was Secretary
several years. He was elected a Fellow of the N. H. M. Society in
1816, and has been one of the Censors for Strafford District. Dec.
14, 1821, he was elected an Honorary Member of the Medical Society at
Dartmouth College.

_Dr. Timothy F. Preston_ went to Rochester in the year 1807, and
resided in town about a year, and then returned to New Ipswich, his
native place.

_Dr. John Perkins_ went to Rochester in 1807, and resided there till
1815, when he moved with his family to Jaffrey. It is not known where
he received his education.

_Dr. Asa Perkins_ went from Dover, his native place, to Rochester, in
1816, and resided there two years, and then returned to Dover, where
he now resides. He is the son of William Perkins, who was a merchant
in Dover, and who died several years since. The Doctor studied
medicine with Dr. Jabez Dow of Dover. He was born April 5, 1793.
Having abandoned his profession, he entered into mercantile business.

_Dr. James Farrington_ went to Rochester in August, 1818, and has
resided in town, to this time [1847]. He was born at Conway, October,
1791, and is the third son, now living, of Jeremiah Farrington,
late of Conway, who emigrated when a young man from Concord, N.
H., and with several others formed a settlement upon the banks of
the Saco river, in that section of the country then called by the
Indians Pequawket, now Conway and Fryeburg; and grandson of Stephen
Farrington, who was one of the first settlers of Concord, and whose
wife was a sister of Jonathan and Samuel Bradley, who, with Obadiah
Peters, John Bean, and John Lufkin, were massacred by the Indians,
Aug. 11, 1746, between Concord and Hopkinton, and to whose memory a
granite monument has been erected on the spot where the massacre was
perpetrated, by their surviving relatives. He received an academic
education at Fryeburg Academy, where in 1814 he was prepared to enter
college. He commenced the study of medicine under the tuition of
Dr. Moses Chandler of Fryeburg, Me., February, 1815, and concluded
his term of study under the instruction of Dr. Jabez Dow of Dover,
in February, 1818. He was examined in the science of medicine and
surgery by the Censors of the N. H. Medical Society, Drs. Crosby and
Pray, July 18, 1818, and commenced practice in Rochester on the 9th
of August following. He is a Fellow of the N. H. Medical Society,
and has been Censor and a Counsellor of the Society, and for several
years President of the Strafford District Society. He has been a
Representative and Senator in the State Legislature, and in 1837 was
elected a member of the 25th Congress of the United States. In 1845
he was appointed by the Executive of the State one of the Trustees of
the N. H. Asylum for the Insane.

Dr. Farrington was married, in 1827, to Mary D., eldest daughter of
Mr. Joseph Hanson of Rochester, and has four children living; three
sons and one daughter. Formerly he had students in medicine, among
whom were Dr. Joseph H. Smith, now a successful practitioner in
Dover, Dr. Timothy Upham, an eminent physician, late of Waterford, N.
Y., and a son of the Hon. Nathaniel Upham, late of Rochester, also
Dr. Alfred Upham, now a physician in the city of New York.

Dr. Farrington has had an extensive business in his profession
for twenty-five years, and has performed many difficult surgical
operations.

_Dr. Calvin Cutter, Dr. Theodore Wells, and a Dr. Turner_ from
Massachusetts, went to Rochester and tarried a short time in 1832 and
1833, and then returned to their native towns.

_Dr. Rufus K. Pearl_ was born at Farmington, Feb. 6, 1815, attended
Medical Lectures at Bowdoin and Dartmouth Colleges, and studied
medicine with Dr. Wight of Gilmanton. He commenced practice in
Rochester in 1840, and being out of health, he left the profession,
and has gone into trade in the village of that place.

_Dr. John W. Pray_ is the son of Dr. Samuel Pray of Rochester,
with whom he studied medicine. He was born in Rochester, August,
1814, attended Medical Lectures at Dartmouth College, commenced the
practice of his profession in Barrington, in 1840, and continued at
that place three years, when he returned to Rochester and went into
practice with his father.

_Dr. Richard Russel_ moved from Great Falls village to Rochester,
about the year 1841, and resided in town about three years, and then
returned to Great Falls, in 1844. It is not known when he began the
practice of his profession, nor what was his education.

_Dr. Jeremiah Garland_ was born at Strafford, Sept. 23, 1815, and
commenced the practice of his profession at Rochester, in 1844.
He attended Medical Lectures at New York, in the old medical and
surgical institution, and obtained the degree of M. D. at that
institution. He studied medicine with Drs. Chadbourne and Haynes of
Concord.




SKETCHES OF ALUMNI AT THE DIFFERENT COLLEGES IN NEW ENGLAND.


HON. NATHAN WESTON OF AUGUSTA, ME.

JOHN WESTON, from whom the subject of this memoir is the fourth in
descent, came from Buckinghamshire in England to this country, in
1644, at the age of 13. After residing a few years in Salem, he
purchased a tract of land in what is now South Reading, Ms., to
which he removed, and where he spent the residue of his days. He
died in 1723; being more than 90 years of age. It is noted on his
gravestone, that he was one of the founders of the church in Reading.
A part of his estate remained in the hands of his posterity for over
one hundred years. Stephen, his son, was a pious, industrious, and
respectable man. He had a farm in Reading, where he died in 1753, at
the age of 88.

Stephen, his son, became the owner of a farm in Wilmington, Ms. He
was a leading man there, distinguished for his piety, and was for
many years Deacon of the church in that town, where he died in 1776,
in his 81st year. Nathan, his fifth son, was born at Wilmington, in
1740. He married Elisabeth, the mother of the subject of this Memoir.
She was the daughter of Samuel Bancroft, Esq., of Reading, who
represented that town for many years in the General Court, and sister
of the late Rev. Dr. Bancroft of Worcester. He (Nathan) removed to
that part of Hallowell which is now Augusta, in Maine, then a part
of Massachusetts, in 1781. He was for several years in the State
government of Massachusetts, being, at different times, a member of
the House, Senate, and Council of that Commonwealth. He died in 1832,
at the advanced age of nearly 93 years.

NATHAN WESTON, his son and the subject of this Memoir, was born
at Hallowell, now Augusta, July 27, 1782. He pursued his studies,
preparatory to his entering college, at Hallowell Academy, under the
direction of the late Preceptor Moody. He was graduated at Dartmouth
College, in 1803. He went immediately into the study of the law.
After reading a few months with Benjamin Whitwell, Esq., of Augusta,
he entered the office of George Blake, Esq., Attorney for the
United States, for the Massachusetts District, at Boston, where he
prosecuted his studies, until his admission to the bar, in the county
of Suffolk, in July, 1806.

He soon after opened an office at Augusta, but in March,
1807, removed to New Gloucester, in the county of Cumberland,
where he continued in full practice in his profession three
years, representing that town in 1808, in the General Court of
Massachusetts. In June, 1809, he married Paulina B., daughter of the
Hon. Daniel Cony, and returned to Augusta, in March, 1810, where he
now (1847) resides. He continued the practice of the law until the
fall of 1811, when he was made Chief-Justice of the Circuit Court
of Common Pleas for the Second Eastern Circuit of Massachusetts, in
which he continued to officiate until the separation of Maine, in
1820. He then became one of the Judges of the Supreme Judicial Court,
and in October, 1834, he was appointed Chief-Justice of that State,
which office he held till October, 1841, when his term of office
expired. In 1831, the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred
upon him at Dartmouth College, and afterwards at Waterville and
Bowdoin Colleges, Maine.

In February, 1825, at a general meeting of the members of both houses
of the Legislature, then sitting in Portland, without distinction
of party, he was with great unanimity nominated for the office of
Governor, but preferring to remain on the bench, he declined the
nomination.

Judge Weston has four sons; Nathan, Daniel Cony, who married Mary
C. North, granddaughter of the late General William North of New
York, George Melville, and Charles. The first three were educated
at Bowdoin College, and are now in the practice of law; one in
Augusta, one in Orono, and one in Vassalborough, in Maine. His third
son, George Melville, is Attorney for the State for the county of
Kennebec. Charles, his fourth son, has been a midshipman in the Navy
of the United States. Of his daughters, Paulina Cony died in 1820,
aged two years. Two survive, namely, Catharine Martin and Louisa
Matilda.

Chief-Justice Weston is not known as the author of any published
work, beyond an occasional oration or address, in his younger days;
but the decisions of the Supreme Court of Maine, now extended to
about twenty volumes, are filled with legal opinions drawn by him,
which will remain a monument of his learning and industry.


HON. RICHARD LAW OF NEW LONDON, CT.

[This memoir was obtained through the instrumentality of Prof.
Kingsley of Yale College.]

RICHARD LAW was a son of the Hon. Jonathan Law, Governor of
Connecticut, and was born at Milford, on the 17th of March, 1733.
He was educated at Yale College, where he was graduated in 1751,
and where also he received the degree of LL. D. Immediately after
graduating, he entered upon the study of the law, in the office and
under the instruction of that able jurist and accomplished lawyer,
the Hon. Jared Ingersoll; and after a course of studies usual at that
day, he was, soon after the age of 21, admitted to the bar, at New
Haven; and immediately removed, and settled at New London, where he
became highly distinguished in his profession. As an advocate at the
bar, his style was pure and correct, but not copious and flowing. He
was distinguished more as a learned lawyer, a close logician, a fair
special pleader, than an eloquent orator. His talents were better
adapted to a court than a jury. He possessed a discrimination, and
power of seeing and seizing the great point in the case--the point on
which it must turn; and by a course of special pleadings--by drawing
on the "_heartstrings of the law_," he had a faculty of presenting
his point, by forming an issue in law for the decision of the court,
most favorably for his client; and on such issues, from the logical
structure of his mind, he was powerful. He was thoroughly read in
the ancient English law authorities; and few American lawyers or
jurists, of his day and age, better understood the great principles
of the English common law, or could better discriminate between such
of those principles as were applicable to the genius of a republican
government, and such as were not, than Judge Law. Those which he
adopted formed, as it respected the common law, the polestar of his
judicial decisions.

After a full and lucrative practice of several years, in consequence
of ill health, he was induced to relinquish the bar, and accept a
seat as Chief-Judge on the Bench of the County Court for the county
of New London. This office he held until May, 1784, when he was
appointed one of the Judges of the Superior Court.

In May, 1776, he was chosen an Assistant, a member of the Council or
upper house of Assembly, which office he held by annual elections of
the freemen, until May, 1786, when an act was passed excluding Judges
from a seat in the Legislature.

In 1777, it is believed that at May session, he was appointed by the
General Assembly a member of Congress; and continued with little, if
any intermission, a member of that body until 1782.

On granting the charter to the city of New London, he was by the
freemen in March, 1784, unanimously chosen Mayor; which office he
held until his death--a period of nearly twenty-two years.

On the return of peace, after the Revolution, he was appointed with
the Hon. Roger Sherman, to revise the code of Statute Laws of the
State. This code had not been revised for thirty years, and had
accumulated to a great size, from the great variety of statutes
enacted in the emergencies of the Revolution. In its subjects of
correction, a work of great interest and importance, it required no
small ability so to select and discriminate as to give universal
satisfaction. In the discharge of which duty he discovered great
knowledge of the science of legislation, and the true principles of
national government.

In May, 1786, he was appointed Chief-Judge of the Superior Court;
and continued in that office until the adoption of the Constitution
of the United States; when being by President Washington appointed
District Judge of the District of Connecticut, in October, 1789, he
resigned the former and accepted the latter, which he held until his
death, which occurred at New London, Jan. 26, 1806, in the 73rd year
of his age.

Judge Law lived in an eventful period of his country, and of the
world; and the many and various important offices which he held
and honorably sustained through the course of a long life, better
bespeak, than language can express, the character, the worth, and
merits of the man.


REV. NAPHTALI SHAW OF BRADFORD, VT.

NAPHTALI SHAW was born at Bridgewater, Ms., June 20, 1764, and was
the fourth son of his parents. His father, who was by occupation a
tanner and shoemaker, was William Shaw, who lived in Bridgewater,
and married Hannah, daughter of Samuel West, who was a Deacon of
the Congregational Church in that place, and lived to be more than
eighty years of age. He had five sons and six daughters. At the age
of fifteen the subject of this Memoir enlisted as a soldier in the
Revolutionary army, and went with others to take Rhode Island, which
was in 1779 in possession of the British, but he did not continue
long in the service, the object being accomplished. He prepared for
college under the instructions of Dr. Crane, a physician of Titicut
Parish, and the Rev. Dr. Reed of West Bridgewater. In 1786, he
entered the Freshman Class of Dartmouth College, and graduated there
in 1790. After receiving his bachelor's degree, he taught school at
Easton, Ms., and at Boston, as an assistant of Mr. Caleb Bingham, an
instructor of much celebrity. His theological course of study was
pursued under the direction of the Rev. Dr. Sanger of Bridgewater,
who was in the habit of educating young men for the ministry. He
was approbated to preach the gospel, as it was then called, by the
Plymouth Association of Ministers, Aug. 1, 1792. Jan. 30, 1793, he
was ordained Pastor of the church in Kensington, N. H., where he
remained till Jan. 13, 1813, when he was dismissed on account of
ill health. His ministry was pacific and useful; peace and harmony
were restored, and the cause of education, morals, and religion
promoted. His health was such, that upon resignation, he retired from
the ministry, and devoted himself to agricultural pursuits, having
purchased a farm in the town of Bradford, Vt., where he still lives
in the enjoyment of his bodily and mental powers, to a good degree,
at the age of 84 years.

Mr. Shaw married, June 10, 1798, Mary Crafts, daughter of Dr. John
Staples Crafts of Bridgewater, who was to him a great blessing.
"The greatest blessing," said Martin Luther, "with which a man can
be favored is a pious and amiable wife, who fears God and loves her
family, with whom he may live in peace, and in whom he may repose
confidence." The wife of Mr. Shaw died Jan. 14, 1840. Their children
were four;--Thomas Crafts, living in Bradford, Vt., a farmer, and a
deacon of the church in that place, who married Sarah Jenkins, by
whom he has two daughters, Sarah Jane and Mary Ann; Eliza Park, who
married Dea. Randell H. Wild of West Fairlee, who died in Bradford,
Dec. 22, 1841, leaving two daughters, Elisabeth and Emily; Samuel
West, who married Jerusha Bliss of Fairlee, and died March 12, 1832,
leaving no child; Mary Ann, who died July 12, 1808, in childhood.


HON. NAHUM MITCHELL OF PLYMOUTH.

NAHUM MITCHELL was born in East Bridgewater, Feb. 12, 1769. His
father was Cushing Mitchell, son of Col. Edward, grandson of Edward,
and great-grandson of Experience, who was one of the Pilgrim
forefathers, and arrived at Plymouth in the third ship, the Ann, in
1623. They all lived and died in East Bridgewater, on the spot which
their descendants now occupy. His mother was Jennet, daughter of the
Hon. Hugh Orr, from Lochwinioch, County of Renfrew, Scotland, who
married Mary, daughter of Capt. Jonathan Bass of East Bridgewater,
whose father was Dea. Samuel Bass of Braintree, whose father was
John, who married Ruth, daughter of the Hon. John Alden, the Pilgrim;
and John's father was Dea. Samuel Bass of Braintree, (now Quincy.)
Capt. Jonathan Bass's wife was Susanna, daughter of Nicholas Byram
of East Bridgewater, whose wife was Mary, daughter of Dea. Samuel
Edson of West Bridgewater, and whose father, Nicholas Byram, married
Susanna, daughter of Abraham Shaw of Dedham.

Cushing Mitchell's mother was Elisabeth, daughter of Elisha Cushing
of Hingham, a descendant from Matthew Cushing, one of the first
settlers in Hingham, and ancestor of all of the name in this part
of the country, and whose father was Peter Cushing of Hingham in
England. Matthew's wife was Nazareth, daughter of Henry Pitcher.
Matthew's son Daniel married Lydia, daughter of Edward Gilman,
ancestor of all the Gilmans in New England. Daniel's son Daniel,
father of Elisha, married Elisabeth, daughter of Capt. John Thaxter
of Hingham, son of Thomas, the ancestor of all the Thaxters in this
vicinity. Capt. John Thaxter's wife was Elisabeth, daughter of
Nicholas Jacob, or Jacobs, of Hingham.

Col. Edward Mitchell's mother was Alice, daughter of Maj. John
Bradford of Kingston, son of William, Deputy-Governor, and grandson
of William Bradford, the Governor. The Governor's wife was widow
Alice Southworth, her maiden name Carpenter. William the Deputy's
wife was Alice, daughter of Thomas Richards of Weymouth. Maj. John's
wife was Mercy, daughter of Joseph Warren, son of Richard Warren,
and his wife Elisabeth, from London. Joseph's wife was Priscilla,
daughter of John, and sister of Eld. Thomas Faunce of Plymouth. Col.
Edward Mitchell's mother, after the death of his father, married Dea.
Joshua Hersey of Hingham.

The subject of this Memoir prepared for college with the Hon.
Beza Hayward, in Bridgewater, and entered Harvard College, July,
1785, where he graduated in 1789. He kept school at Weston, while
in college, and a few times after graduating, in Bridgewater and
Plymouth; and was engaged in instructing part of the time while
attending to his professional studies. He read law with the Hon. John
Davis, Judge of the District Court of Massachusetts, lately deceased
in Boston, but then living in Plymouth, his native place. He was
admitted to the bar, Nov. 24, 1792, and settled in the practice of
the law in East Bridgewater, his native place.

Judge Mitchell was Justice of the Circuit Court of Common Pleas
for the Southern Circuit, from 1811 to 1821, inclusive, being
Chief-Justice during the last two years of that time. He was
Representative to General Court from Bridgewater seven years between
1798 and 1812; Representative in Congress from Plymouth District two
years, from 1803 to 1805; Senator from Plymouth County two years,
1813 and 1814; Counsellor from 1814 to 1820, inclusive; Treasurer
of the Commonwealth five years, from 1822 to 1827; Representative
to General Court from Boston, 1839 and 1840, in which place he then
resided. He was appointed by the Governor one of the Commissioners
for settling the boundary lines between Massachusetts and Rhode
Island; and afterwards, for settling the line between Massachusetts
and Connecticut; and was Chairman of the first Commissioners for
exploring and surveying the country from Boston to Albany for a
railroad route, 1827, and is a member of the Massachusetts Historical
Society, and has been Librarian and Treasurer of that institution.
He was also several years President of the Bible Society in Plymouth
county.

Judge Mitchell married, in 1794, Nabby, daughter of Gen. Silvanus
Lazell of East Bridgewater, and has 5 children, Harriet, Silvanus L.,
Mary Orr, Elisabeth Cushing, James Henry. Harriet married the Hon.
Nathaniel M. Davis, Esq., of Plymouth; Silvanus L. married Lucia,
daughter of Hon. Ezekiel Whitman of Portland, Me., Chief-Justice of
Court of Common Pleas; Mary O. married David Ames, Jr., Esq., of
Springfield; Elisabeth C. married Nathan D. Hyde of East Bridgewater;
James Henry married Harriet Lavinia, daughter of John Angier of
Belfast, Me., and is a merchant in Philadelphia; Silvanus L. was
graduated at H. C., 1817, and he and his brother-in-law, Hyde, went
into business as merchants at East Bridgewater, and thence removed to
Boston.

Judge Mitchell wrote a short History of Bridgewater, which was
published in 1818, in the Collections of the Massachusetts Historical
Society, Vol. VII., 2nd series. He has since published an enlarged
History of the Early Settlement of that Town, with a particular
Genealogy or Family Register of the Early Settlers.




ADVICE OF A DYING FATHER TO HIS SON.

Dated January 27, 1716.

  [The following article was addressed by the Rev. William Brattle
  of Cambridge to William Brattle, his son and only child who lived
  to maturity, while he was preparing for college. The father was a
  man distinguished for "piety, wisdom, and charity;" and the son
  "was a man of extraordinary talents and character, acceptable
  as a preacher, eminent as a lawyer, celebrated as a physician."
  He was a Major-General in the militia, and much in public
  office. May it not be supposed that this paternal Advice from an
  affectionate father to a son of filial affection and an obedient
  disposition, had great effect in making him what he was? For
  this and several other articles of an antiquarian nature we are
  indebted to Charles Ewer, Esq.]


1. Agreeably to what is written 1 Chron. xxviii, 9, My dear Son, know
thou the God of thy father, & serve him with a perfect heart, and
with a willing mind. If thou seek him, he will be found of thee; but
if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off for ever.

2. Think often of thine own frailty, and of the uncertainly and
emptiness of all Sublunary Enjoyments. Value not Self upon riches.
Value not thy Self upon any worldly advancement whatsoever. Let faith
and Goodness be thy treasure. Let no happiness content and Sattisfie
thee but what secures the favour and peace of God unto thee.

3. Remember thy baptism, acquaint thy Self well with the nature
and obligations of that Ordinance. Publickly renew thy baptismall
Covenant. Renew it Seasonably in thy early Days with humility and
thirsty desires to enjoy Communion with God in the ordinance of the
Lord's Supper and in all Approaches before God therein bringing
faith and Love and a Self abasing Sence of thine own Emptiness and
unworthyness.

4. Prize and Esteem the holy word of God infinitly before the finest
of Gold. Reverence it with thy whole heart, read it constantly with
seriousness, and great delight. Meditate much upon it, make it thy
Guide in all thy wayes, fetch all thy Comforts from thence, and by a
religious and holy walk, establish thine Interest in the blessed and
glorious Promises therein contained.

5. Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Reverence God's
Sanctuary. In prayer, in Singing, in hearing God's word Read or
preached, and in every public administration Wait upon God with
outward Reverence and true devotion in thine heart, Remembering that
holyness for ever becomes God's house. When in thy more private
retirements, Still let it be thy Care to Sanctifie God's Sabbath. Be
watchfull therefore over thine heart and over thy thoughts. Call to
mind and run over what thou hast heard in God's house. Read Savoury
books. Catechise thy Self, and others too when God gives Opportunity.

6. Take care of thy health, avoid all Excess in eating and in
drinking, in taking thy pleasure, and in all innocent Recreations
whatsoever. Let not immoderate heatt and Colds needlessly Expose thy
body.

7. Beware of Passion. Let not Anger and Wrath infect thine heart,
suffer wrong with Patience, Rather than to right thy Self by
unchristian methods, or by suffering thy spirit to be out of frame.

8. Labour to establish thy Self and begg of God that he would
Establish thee in the grace of Chastity, keep thine heart clean and
Chast, keep thy Tongue clean and Chast, keep thine hands clean and
Chast, keep thine Eyes clean and Chast. Never trust to thy Self to
be thy keeper, avoid temptations to uncleaness of every nature, be
watchfull over thy Self night and day, but in the midst of all Let
thine heart be with God, and be thou much in prayer, that God would
be thy keeper. Let all the incentives to Lust as farr as may be, be
avoided by thee.

9. Speak the Truth alwayes. Let not a Lye defile thy Lips, be content
with Suffering rather than by telling the Least Lie to Save thy Self.
Beware of Shuffling off by disimulation.

10. Let Pride be an abomination in thy Sight. Cloth thyself with
humility. Let humility be thine under Garment. Let humility be thine
upper Garment.

11. Despise no man, let the State of his Body or mind or other
circumstances of his, be what they will, still reverence humanity,
consider who made thee to differ.

12. Be just to all men; be thou courteous and affable to all men;
render not Evil for Evil, but recompense evil with Good. Owe no man
any thing but Love.

13. Be thou compassionate, tender hearted, and mercifull; do good
to all men, be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to
communicate; for with such sacrifices God is evermore well pleased.

14. Avoid sloth and idleness, give thy Self to thy Studys; converse
with such Authors as may tend to make thee wise and good and to
forward thy growth in true wisdom and goodness.

15. Acquaint thy Self with History; know something of the
Mathematicks, and Physick; be able to keep Accompts Merchant like
in some measure; but let Divinity be thy main Study. Accomplish thy
Self for the worke of the Ministry, begg of God that he would incline
thine heart therto, and accept thee therin, and if it shall please
God thus to Smile upon thee, aspire not after great things; let the
Providence of God chuse for thee, and let the Flock have the Love of
thy heart; be Solicitous for their Spirituall good, and for the glory
of God; and let thy Aims be this way in all thy private meditations,
and public administrations, all the dayes of thy Life.

My dear Child, be of a Catholick Spirit.




RELATIONSHIP.

  In old wills and other old documents the word _cousin_ is
  sometimes used for _nephew_, and thus many errors may occur in
  tracing out genealogies. Many curious cases of relationship
  will be found to exist by those that investigate the descent of
  families, some of which cannot be described by the terms we now
  use to designate consanguinity. It is surprising, that among the
  many words that have been coined, some new terms have not come
  into use as substitutes for the awkward way we now have of naming
  some of our relatives; such as great-great-great grandfather,
  great-great-great-uncle, &c. The following curious case was taken
  from a newspaper; whether the account is correct or not, the
  reader may see that it may be true.

  "_A man can be his own grandfather._

  "A widow and her daughter-in-law and a man and his son--the widow
  married the son, the daughter the father; the widow was mother
  to her husband's father and grandmother to her husband; they had
  a son to whom she was great-grandmother. Now as the son of a
  great-grandmother must be either a grandfather or great-uncle,
  the boy must be one or the other. This was the case of a boy in
  Connecticut."




DECEASE OF THE FATHERS OF NEW ENGLAND.

Chronologically arranged.

(Continued from p. 74.)


  1648.

  Oct. 11,   Rev. Henry Green of Reading.


  1649.

  March 26,  Gov. John Winthrop of Boston, b. Jan. 12, 1588, d., a. 61.

  Aug. 25,   Rev. Thomas Shepard of Cambridge, b. Nov. 5, 1605, d., a. 44.


  1650.

  Sept. 11,  Atherton Hough of Boston, an Assistant.


  1651.

  Aug. --,   William Thomas, an Assistant of Plymouth Colony, d., a. 77.


  1652.

  Aug. 24,   Adam Winthrop, Esq., of Boston, d., a. 33.

  Sept. 14,  Capt. Bozoun Allen of Boston, formerly of Hingham.

  Dec. 23,   Rev. John Cotton of Boston d., a. 67. (The old "Boston Book"
               says, Mr. Cotton d. 15th of 10th month.)


  1653.

  Jan. 18,   Capt. William Tyng of Boston, Treasurer of the Colony.

  July 31,   Gov. Thomas Dudley of Roxbury d., a. 77.

             Rev. Nathaniel Ward, first minister of Ipswich, d. in England,
               a. 83.

  Nov. 8,    Rev. John Lothrop of Barnstable.

  Oct. 8,    Hon. Thomas Flint of Concord.


  1654.

  Jan. --,   John Glover of Dorchester, an Assistant.

             Gov. John Haynes of Hartford, Ct.

  July 23,   William Hibbins, an Assistant, d. at Boston.

  Dec. 9,    Gen. Edward Gibbons of Boston.


  1655.

  May 8,     Edward Winslow of Plymouth d. on board the Fleet, a. 61.

  July 3,    Rev. Nathaniel Rogers of Ipswich d., a. 57.

             Rev. Daniel Maud of Dover, N. H. He had taught a school for
               some years in Boston before he went to Dover.

             Henry Wolcott, the ancestor of the governors of Connecticut
               by this name, d., a. 78.


  1656.

             Capt. Miles Standish of Duxbury d., a. ab. 72.

             Capt. Robert Bridges of Lynn, an Assistant.

       1668? Rev. Peter Prudden of Milford, Ct., d., a. 56.

  March 23,  Capt. Robert Keaine, merchant in Boston.

  Oct. 22,   Rev. James Noyes of Newbury d., a. 48.


  1657.

  Jan. 7,    Gov. Theophilus Eaton of Connecticut d., a. 66.

  March --,  Gov. Edward Hopkins d. in London, a. 57.

             George Fenwick, the first settler of Saybrook, d. in England.

  May 9,     Gov. William Bradford of Plymouth, d., a. 69.


  1658.

             Rev. Ralph Partridge of Duxbury.

             John Coggan of Boston.


  1659.

  Feb. 27,   Rev. Henry Dunster of Scituate d., (buried at Cambridge.)

  March 9,   Rev. Peter Bulkley of Concord d., a. 77.

  April 10,  Rev. Edward Norris of Salem d., a. ab. 70.

  Sept. 29,  John Johnson of Roxbury.


  1660.

  Oct. 16,   Rev. Hugh Peters executed in England, a. 61.


  1661.

  Jan. 23,   Rev. Ezekiel Rogers of Rowley, a. 70.

  Sept. 17,  Maj. Gen. Humphrey Atherton of Dorchester. He was
               killed by a fall from his horse on Boston Common,
               when on his return from a military review on the
               Common. Mr. Savage and the inscription on his tombstone
               say, that he died on the 16th, but other authority,[25]
               and incontrovertible, says, on the "17th at about 1
               o'clock, after midnight."

  Dec. 28,   Rev. Timothy Dalton of Hampton d., a. ab. 84.


  1662.

  March 1,   Rev. Ralph Smith d. at Boston.

  March 30,  Rev. Samuel Hough, minister of Reading, d. in Boston.

  June 14,   Sir Henry Vane executed in England, a. 50.

  Oct. --,   William Pynchon d. at Wraisbury, Bucks, a. 72.


  1663.

  ----,      Thomas Camock, nephew of the Earl of Warwick, d. in
               Scarborough, Me. If he is the same who is named in
               the 2nd charter of Virginia, 1609, he was quite
               advanced in years.

             Rev. Richard Denton of Stamford, Ct., [ab. 1663.]

  April 5,   Rev. John Norton of Boston, a. 57.

  June 12,   Rev. John Miller d. at Groton.

  July 5,    Rev. Samuel Newman of Rehoboth, a. 63.

  July 20,   Rev. Samuel Stone of Hartford.


  1665.

  Jan. 9,    Rev. Samuel Eaton of New Haven.

  March 15,  Gov. John Endecott of Boston, a. 77.

  July 15,   Capt. Richard Davenport, killed by lightning at Castle
               William, a. 59.

             Rev. Adam Blackman of Stratford.

             Dr. John Clark of Boston, a. 66.




NEW ENGLAND.


The following is an extract from "A NEW DESCRIPTION OF THE
WORLD,--London, printed for Hen. Rhodes, next door to the Swan
Tavern, near Brides-Lane, in Fleet-Street, 1689."

  _NEW ENGLAND_, an _English_ Colony in America, is bounded on
  the North-East with _Novumbegua_, on the Southwest with _Novum
  Belgium_; and on the other parts by the Woods and Sea coast;
  scituate in the middle of Temperate Zone, between the degrees
  of 41 and 44, equally distant from the Artick Circle, and the
  Tropick of _Cancer_; which renders it very temperate and very
  agreeable to the Constitution of _English_ Bodies, the Soil being
  alike Fruitful, if not in some places exceeding ours; all sorts
  of Grain and Fruit trees common with us growing kindly there; The
  Woods there are very great, wherein for the most part the Native
  _Indians_ dwell Fortefying themselves as in Towns or places of
  defence, living upon Deer and such other Creatures, as those vast
  Wildernesses whose extents are unknown to the _English_ abound
  with; there are in this Country store of Ducks, Geese, Turkies,
  Pigeons, Cranes, Swans, Partridges, and almost all sort of Fowl,
  and Cattle, common to us in _Old England_; together with Furs,
  Amber, Flax, Pitch, Cables, Mast, and in brief whatever may
  conduce to profit and pleasure; the Native _Indians_, in these
  parts are more tractable, if well used, than in any other; many
  of them though unconverted, often saying, that our God is a good
  God, but their _Tanto_ evil, which _Tanto_ is no other than the
  Devil, or a wicked Spirit that haunts them every Moon, which
  obliges them to Worship him for fear, though to those that are
  converted to Christianity he never appears.

  This _English_ Colony after many Attempts and bad Successes was
  firmly Established 1620, at what time _New Plymouth_ was Built
  and Fortified; so that the _Indians_ thereby being over-aw'd,
  suffered the Planters without controul to Build other Towns, the
  chief of which are _Bristol_, _Boston_, _Barnstaple_, and others,
  alluding to the Names of Sea Towns in _Old England_; and are
  accommodated with many curious Havens commodious for Shipping,
  and the Country watered with pleasant Rivers of extraordinary
  largeness; so abounding with Fish, that they are not taken for
  dainties; and for a long time they were all Governed at their own
  dispose, and Laws made by a Convocation of Planters, _&c._ but of
  late they have submitted to receive a Governor from _England_.

  _NOVUM BELGIUM_, or the _New Neitherlands_, lies in this tract
  on the South of _New England_, extending from 38 to 41 degrees
  North Latitude; a place into which the _Hollanders_ intruded
  themselves, considerable Woody; which Woods naturally abound with
  Nuts and wild Grapes, replenished with Deer, and such Creatures
  as yield them store of Furrs, as the Rivers and Plains do Fish
  and Fowl; rich Pastures, and Trees of extraordinary bigness,
  with Flax, Hemp, and Herbage; the ground very kindly bearing
  the Product of _Europe_; and here the Natives, such as live in
  Hutts and Woods, go clad in Beasts Skins, their Household goods
  consisting of a Wooden dish, a Tobacco Pipe, and a Hatchet made
  of a sharp Flint Stone, their Weapons Bows and Arrows; though
  the _Dutch_ unfairly to their cost, out of a covetous Humor,
  traded with them for Guns, Swords, _&c._, shewing the use of them
  which the _Indians_ turning upon their quondam Owners, found an
  opportunity to send 400 of their new Guests into the other World;
  and here the chief Town is _New Amsterdam_, commodiously Scituate
  for Trade, and the Reception of Shipping.




TIME OF THE ARRIVAL IN NEW ENGLAND OF THE FOLLOWING MINISTERS.


  1630.

  Rev. John Maverick.
  Rev. John Warham.
  Rev. John Wilson.
  Rev. George Phillips.

  1631.

  Rev. John Eliot.

  1632.

  Rev. Thomas Weld.
  Rev. Thomas James.
  Rev. Stephen Bachiler.

  1633.

  Rev. John Cotton.
  Rev. Thomas Hooker.
  Rev. Samuel Stone.
  Rev. William Leveredge?

  1634.

  Rev. John Lathrop.
  Rev. John Miller?
  Rev. James Noyes.
  Rev. Thomas Parker.
  Rev. Zechariah Symmes.
  Rev. Nathaniel Ward.

  1635.

  Rev. Peter Bulkley.
  Rev. John Avery.
  Rev. George Burdet?
  Rev. Henry Flint.
  Rev. Peter Hobart.
  Rev. John Reyner?
  Rev. Richard Mather.
  Rev. Hugh Peters.
  Rev. John Norton.
  Rev. Thomas Shepard.
  Rev. William Walton.
  Rev. John Jones.

  1636.

  Rev. Ralph Partridge.
  Rev. Samuel Whiting.
  Rev. Nathaniel Rogers.
  Rev. John Wheelwright.
  Rev. Thomas Jenner.
  Rev. Samuel Newman.

  1637.

  Rev. John Allin.
  Rev. Edmund Brown.
  Rev. Thomas Cobbet.
  Rev. Timothy Dalton?
  Rev. John Davenport.
  Rev. John Fiske.
  Rev. John Harvard.
  Rev. George Moxon.
  Rev. William Thompson.
  Rev. John Prudden.
  Rev. Samuel Eaton.

  1638.

  Rev. Ezekiel Rogers.
  Rev. Robert Peck.
  Rev. Edward Norris.
  Rev. Charles Chauncy.
  Rev. Thomas Allen.
  Rev. Henry Phillips?
  Rev. Marmaduke Matthews.

  1639.

  Rev. John Knowles.
  Rev. Henry Whitfield.
  Rev. Richard Denton?
  Rev. Jonathan Burr.
  Rev. Ephraim Hewett.
  Rev. Henry Smith.
  Rev. John Ward.
  Rev. William Worcester.
  Rev. Abraham Pierson?

  1640.

  Rev. Henry Dunster.

  1641.

  Rev. Richard Blinman?




GENEALOGIES AND THEIR MORAL.


We were carelessly looking over a genealogy of the "Minot Family" in
the second number of the "New England Historical and Genealogical
Register," when suddenly our eyes were suffused with tears, as they
rested on the following sentence in the catalogue of the children of
Capt. John Minot, who died in Dorchester, 1669:

  "Martha, born Sept. 22, 1657; died, single, Nov. 23, 1678, aged
  21. She was engaged to be married, but died unmarried, leaving
  a will in which she directed that at her funeral her betrothed
  husband, 'John Morgan, Jr. be all over mourning, and follow next
  after me.'"

What a history is there in these few words about Martha Minot, who
lived almost two centuries ago! The mind runs back in a moment to
those times, when almost all New England was a wilderness--to those
days of the old Indian wars, when no man could be a "captain" without
being a man of some rank and consequence. Just after the close of
King Philip's war, when the villages of New England were all in
peace, Capt. John Minot's daughter Martha, twenty-one years of age,
and having come into possession of her share of her father's estate,
had plighted her troth to one she loved, and was expecting to be
married too, when disease fastened upon her young frame, and would
not be repelled. In the chill November air, when

      "The melancholy days were come, the saddest of the year,"

she faded like a leaf. And at her burial there followed, nearer
than brother or sister, nearest to the hearse, the one whom, of all
the living, she loved most, from whom to part had been to her more
painful than the death-pang, and who had been in her thoughts till
"the love-light in her eye" was extinguished. That single item in
her directions for her funeral, that "John Morgan, Jr., be all over
mourning, and follow next after me," tells the whole story.

Nothing seems, at first sight, less interesting or less instructive,
than a genealogical table, a mere register of names and dates. But
such a passage as that which we have quoted--so picturesque, so
suggestive, so touching, so dramatic--when it occurs in the midst
of these dry records, throws out an electric light at every link
in the chain of generations. Each of those names in the table is
the memorial--perhaps the only memorial--of a human heart that once
lived and loved; a heart that kept its steady pulsations through some
certain period of time, and then ceased to beat and mouldered into
dust. Each of those names is the memorial of an individual human life
that had its joys and sorrows, its cares and burthens, its affections
and hopes, its conflicts and achievements, its opportunities wasted
or improved, and its hour of death. Each of those dates of "birth,"
"marriage," "death,"--O how significant! What a day was each of those
dates to some human family, or to some circle of loving human hearts!

To read a genealogy then may be, to a thinking mind, like walking in
a cemetery, and reading the inscriptions on the gravestones. As we
read, we may say with the poet--

      "To a mysteriously-consorted pair,
      This place is consecrate--to Death and Life."

The presence of death drives the mind to thoughts of immortality.
Memorials of the dead are memorials not of death only, but of
life. They lived, and therefore they died; and as the mind thinks
of the dead gathered to their fathers, it cannot but think of the
unseen worlds which they inhabit. All these names are memorials of
human spirits that have passed from time into eternity. Ready or
unprepared, in youth or in maturity, in childhood or in old age, they
went into eternity, as we are going.

      "The nursling, and the tottering little one
      Taken from air and sunshine when the rose
      Of infancy first blooms upon his cheek;
      The thinking, thoughtless schoolboy; the bold youth
      Of soul impetuous, and the bashful maid,
      Smitten when all the promises of life
      Are opening round her; those of middle age,
      Cast down while confident in strength they stand,
      Like pillars fixed more firmly, as might seem,
      And more secure, by very weight of all
      That for support rests on them; the decayed
      And burthensome; and lastly that poor few
      Whose light of reason is with age extinct;
      The hopeful and the hopeless, first and last,
      The earliest summoned and the longest spared,
      Are here deposited."

The genealogical chapters in Genesis and Chronicles are commonly and
very naturally regarded as being almost if not quite an exception
to the testimony, "All Scripture is profitable for doctrine, for
reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness." But the
story is told of a man who had long been irreligious and thoughtless,
that in some vacant hour he happened to open his Bible, and began
to read the catalogue of antediluvians, in the fifth chapter of
Genesis. As he read that one lived so many years and he _died_, and
another lived so many years and he died, the uniformity of the record
arrested his attention, his mind was awakened to new thoughts of the
significancy of death and life, and thus he was led to realize the
ends of his existence, and to dedicate himself, in penitence and
trust, to a forgiving God.--_New York Evangelist._




FIRST SETTLERS OF RHODE ISLAND.

BY THE LATE JOHN FARMER, ESQ.


  Roger Williams,
  John Thockmorton,
  William Arnold,
  William Harris,
  Stukeley Westcot,
  Thomas Olney, Sen.
  Thomas Olney, Jun.
  John Greene,
  Richard Waterman,
  Thomas James,
  Robert Cole,
  William Carpenter,
  Francis Weston,
  Ezekiel Holleman,
  Robert Williams,
  John Smith,
  Hugh Bewitt,
  William Wickenden,
  John Field,
  Thomas Hopkins,
  William Hawkins,
  William Hutchinson,
  Edward Hutchinson, Jun.
  John Coggeshall,
  William Aspinwall,
  Samuel Wildbore,
  John Porter,
  John Sandford,
  Edward Hutchinson,
  Thomas Savage,
  William Dyre,
  William Freeborn,
  Philip Sherman,
  John Walker,
  Richard Carder,
  William Baulston,
  Henry Bull,
  William Coddington,
  John Clark,
  Edward Cope,
  Chad. Brown,
  Daniel Brown,
  Henry Brown,
  John Brown,
  Samuel Bennett,
  Hugh Bewett,
  Adam Goodwin,
  Henry Fowler,
  Arthur Fenner,
  Henry Reddock,
  Thomas Sucklin,
  Christopher Smith,
  Richard Pray,
  Nicholas Power,
  Stephen Northup,
  Edward Hart,
  Benjamin Herenden,
  Edward Inman,
  John Jones,
  James Matthewson,
  Henry Neale,
  William Man,
  ---- Jinckes,
  Roger Mawry,
  Edward Manton,
  Shadrach Manton,
  George Shepard,
  Edward Smith,
  Benjamin Smith,
  John Smith, (the Mason.)
  John Smith, (Sen.)
  John Smith, (Jun.)
  John Smith, (Jamaica,)
  Epenetus Olney,
  Lawrence Wilkinson,
  Daniel Williams,
  Christopher Onthank,
  Joshua Verin,
  John Sayles,
  Richard Scott,
  Joan Tyler,
  Joshua Winsor,
  Valentine Whitman,
  George Way,
  William White,
  Thomas Walling,
  John Warren,
  John Whipple,
  Matthew Waller,
  Robert Williams,
  Joseph Williams,
  William Wickenden,
  Robert R. West,
  Pardon Tillighast.




MARRIAGES AND DEATHS.

  [Our authorities for most of our records of Marriages and Deaths
  are the newspapers. These may not always be correct.]


MARRIAGES.

  BATES, JOHN S., ESQ., of Canandaigua, N. Y., to ANNIE M.,
  daughter of Gen. Timothy Upham of Boston, late of Portsmouth, N.
  H., May 19.

  BIGELOW, H. J., M. D., to SUSAN, daughter of William Sturgis,
  Boston, May 8.

  BROWN, ABNER HARTWELL, M. D., of Lowell, Prof. of Chemistry in
  Willoughby Medical College, O., to SUSAN AUGUSTA, daughter of
  Rev. Dr. Shurtleff, late Prof. in Dartmouth College, April 13.

  BURLINGAME, ANSON, Attorney, of Boston, to JANE CORNELIA,
  daughter of Hon. Isaac Livermore of Cambridge, June 3.

  COFFIN, REV. EZEKIEL W., Minister of the Universalist Society in
  Attleboro', to MISS MARY ELIZA WEBBER of Boston, May 30.

  FOSTER, FORDYCE, M. D., to MISS ADELINE JANE TOWER, Cohasset,
  March 24.

  GILMAN, WOODBURY, M. D., to MISS C. W. HAYES, only daughter of
  Lewis Hayes, Esq., Kittery, Me.

  HARDING, SPENCER S., of Boston, to LOUISA T., daughter of Prof.
  Joseph Dana of Athens, O., April 6.

  JOHNSON, REV. JOHN, appointed missionary to China, to ARETHUSA
  ANNA, daughter of Abel Stevens, Esq., of Eastport, Me., May 30.

  LEMON, JOHN J., of Boston, to MISS EMMA L. BADGER of
  Philadelphia, daughter of the late George Dier Badger of Windham,
  Ct., March 20.

  RUSSELL, BRADFORD, Attorney, Groton, to MISS MARIA PROUTY of
  Sterling, March 25.

  SEEGER, EDWIN, M. D., of Springfield, to ELIZABETH A., daughter
  of Hon. John H. White of Lancaster, N. H., May 31.

  SHATTUCK, JOEL, ESQ., of Pepperell, to MRS. NANCY PARKER of
  Boston, April 14.

  STEARNS, REV. OAKHAM S., of Southbridge, to ANNA JUDSON, daughter
  of Rev. B. C. Grafton of Medford, June 8.

  TERRILL, CHARLES FREDERICK, to HANNAH WILLIAMS, daughter of W.
  Warland Clapp of Boston, Editor of the Evening Gazette, May 28.


DEATHS.

  ADAMS, MRS. MEHITABLE T., May 9, a. 79, widow of the late Dea.
  Nehemiah Adams of Salem, and mother of Rev. N. Adams of Boston.

  AIKEN, DANIEL, Wexford, Canada West, a. 120. He had contracted
  seven marriages, and his grandchildren and great-grandchildren
  were 570--370 males and 200 females.--_New York Observer._

  BLAKE, REV. CALEB, Westford, May 11, a. 85. He gr. H. C. 1784,
  and was settled in Westford forty-five years.

  BRIMMER, HON. MARTIN, Boston, April 25, for some years Mayor. H.
  C. 1814.

  BURNHAM, BENJAMIN, Essex, April 14, a. 92, a soldier of the
  Revolution. Twelve persons have died in Essex since Jan. 12,
  whose united ages amount to 970 years.

  CARPENTER, REV. CHESTER W., Sinclairville, N. Y., April 17, a.
  35. He died at Beaver, Pa., while returning home from Mobile. He
  gr. A. C., 1839.

  CARPENTER, MRS. HANNAH, Chichester, N. H., April 21, a. 80, wife
  of Rev. Josiah Carpenter.

  COTTON, JOHN, M. D., Marietta, O., April 2, a. 86. Dr. Cotton
  was a lineal descendant of Rev. John Cotton of the first church,
  Boston, and was a man of literary and scientific attainments and
  deep piety.

  DAGGETT, HON. TIMOTHY, Edgarton, April 26, a. 79.

  DAY, ORRIN, ESQ., Catskill, N. Y., Dec. 25, a. 80. He was one of
  those philanthropic men who formed the American Bible Society,
  was a corporate member of the A. B. C. F. M., and a patron of all
  good institutions.

  DUNBAR, ELIJAH, ESQ., Keene, N. H., May 18, a. 88. D. C. 1783.
  Attorney.

  ELLSWORTH, MRS. NANCY G., Lafayette, La., Jan. 15, a. 54. She
  was the wife of Hon. Henry L. Ellsworth, late Commissioner of
  Patents, and dau. of Hon. Elizur Goodrich of New Haven, Ct.

  FISK, DEA. EBENEZER, Shelburne, Dec. 21, a. 62. He was a brother
  of the Rev. Pliny Fisk, Missionary to Palestine.

  FITCH, DEA. ELIJAH, Hopkinton, April 27, a. 68. He was a son of
  Rev. Elijah Fitch, second pastor of the church in that town.

  FULLER, ABRAHAM W., ESQ., Boston, April 6, a. 63. Counsellor at
  Law.

  GOULD, MRS. SALLY MCCURDY, May 19, widow of the late Hon. James
  Gould of Litchfield, Ct.

  GRAY, REV. THOMAS, D. D., Pastor of the Congregational Church,
  Roxbury, (Jamaica Plains,) June 1, a. 75. H. C. 1790.

  HARVEY, REV. BENJAMIN, Frankfort, N. Y., March 18, a. 112. He
  was of the Baptist denomination, and had been a preacher more
  than seventy years.

  HODGDON, ALBERT E., Barnstead, N. H., May 20, a. 25. D. C. 1842.
  Attorney.

  HOLMAN, GEN. SILAS, Bolton, March 25, a. 86. He was connected
  with the State Legislature between 20 and 30 years, and was one
  of the Governor's Council during the administrations of Strong
  and Brooks.

  KELLOGG, MRS. SUSAN C., Williamstown, April 8, a. 48, widow of
  the late Prof. Kellogg.

  MEIGS, MRS. ELISABETH, New Britain, Ct., March 5, a. 92, widow of
  the late Major John Meigs of the U. S. Army in the Revolution.

  MOORE, REV. GEORGE, Quincy, Ill., March 11, a. 35, H. C. 1834,
  minister of the Unitarian Society in that place.

  NEVERS, GEN. JOHN, Northfield, March 30, a. 74.

  PARKER, MRS. MARTHA L., Lancaster, April 30, a. 23, wife of
  Dr. J. O. Parker of Shirley, and daughter of Dr. C. Carter of
  Lancaster.

  PATTEN, JEAN, Bedford, N. H., Feb. 16, a. 78, daughter of Hon.
  Matthew Patten.

  PEABODY, REV. WILLIAM B. O., D. D., Springfield, May 28, a. 47.
  H. C. 1816.

  REVERE, JOHN, M. D., New York, April 29, a. 60. He gr. H.
  C. 1807, and was a Prof. in the Medical Department of N. Y.
  University.

  ROBINSON, REV. CHARLES, Lenox, March 3, a. 45. He was a
  missionary at Siam, and died on board the barque Draco, on his
  return home.

  SAFFORD, CHARLES G., M. D., Rutland, April 27, a. 42. He was a
  native of Exeter, N. H., gr. D. C. 1825, and Andover Theo. Sem'y,
  and was a minister in Gilmanton, N. H. Having lost his health, he
  gave up the ministry, studied medicine, and practised till his
  death.

  SANBORN, MRS. MARTHA, Reading, May 2, a. 59, wife of Rev. Peter
  Sanborn.

  SAVAGE, MRS. LUCY W., May 16, a. 57, wife of Rev. James Savage of
  Bedford, N. H.

  SHURTLEFF, BENJAMIN, M. D., Boston, April 12, a. 72, B. U.
  1796, M. D. H. U. He was an honorary member of the New England
  Historical and Genealogical Society, and a brief memoir of him
  may be expected in our next number.

  SMITH, REV. ELI, Hollis, N. H., May 11, a. 87, B. U. 1792.
  Minister in Hollis.

  STEWART, ENOS, ESQ., Davenport, Iowa, formerly of Boston, a. 48.
  He was a native of Coleraine, H. C. 1820.

  STRONG, REV. CALEB, Montreal, Canada, Jan. 4, pastor of the
  American Presbyterian Church. He was a son of Hon. Lewis Strong,
  and grandson of Gov. Strong of Northampton. Y. C. 1835.

  THAYER, DEA. SHADRACH, South Braintree, May 4, a. 71.

  THOMAS, REV. DANIEL, Abington, a. 67.

  TUCK, MRS. SARAH A., Exeter, N. H., Feb. 20, a. 36, wife of Amos
  Tuck, Esq., an attorney, and daughter of David Nudd, Esq., of
  Hampton, N. H.

  UPHAM, ALBERT G., M. D., Boston, June 16, a. 29, B. C. 1840. He
  was a member of the N. E. Historical and Genealogical Society. A
  brief memoir of him may be expected in our next number.

  WIGGLESWORTH, SAMUEL, M. D., Boston, April 7, a. 35. H. C. 1831.

  WORCESTER, DR. NOAH, Cincinnati, O., April 4, a. 36. H. C. 1832,
  M. D. at D. C. 1838, Prof. in Medical College, Cincinnati, O.

  WRIGHT, MRS. ELEANOR, Dec. 20, 1846, a. 85. She was the widow
  of the late Silas Wright of Weybridge, Vt., and mother of Gov.
  Wright of New York. Mr. Wright died in May, 1843, a. 84. This
  couple lived together as husband and wife 61 years.




NOTICES OF NEW PUBLICATIONS.


_The American Loyalists, or Biographical Sketches of Adherents to the
British Crown in the War of the Revolution; alphabetically arranged;
with a preliminary Historical Essay. By James Sabine._ Boston:
Charles C. Little and James Brown. MDCCCXLVII.

  Mr. Sabine, it is believed, is a merchant at Eastport, Me., but
  still has been in the habit of composing for the press. He has
  written articles for the North American Review, and is the author
  of the Memoir of Commodore Preble in Prof. Sparks's American
  Biography.

  The subject of his present work is both novel and interesting,
  and one upon which we are too ignorant. The most intelligent and
  best informed among us have but little knowledge of the names
  and characters of the Loyalists, or Tories of the Revolution,
  (probably twenty thousand in number,) and of the reasons which
  influenced, of the hopes and fears which agitated, and of the
  rewards or miseries which awaited them. Separated from their
  homes and kindred, outlaws, wanderers, and exiles, they have
  left but few memorials to their posterity. The difficult task
  of collecting and arranging fragmentary events and incidents
  relating to them, scattered here and there, we think the author
  has succeeded admirably in accomplishing. We find among the
  sketches, notices of many distinguished and influential men,
  and while some were notorious for their want of principle,
  there were many who, we cannot doubt, were true and honest in
  espousing the cause of the mother country. Then, though we cannot
  justify any, let us not censure all. "The _winners_ in the
  Revolutionary strife are now twenty millions; and, strong, rich,
  and prosperous, can _afford_ to speak of the losers in terms of
  moderation."

  The Historical Essay, containing one hundred and fourteen pages,
  which precedes the "Biographical Sketches," indicates much
  acquaintance with the Revolution and its causes, and is very
  valuable and highly appropriate.

  The work makes a handsome volume of 733 pages, and is well worthy
  of being perused, and of a place in the library of the historian.


_A Genealogical and Biographical Sketch of the Name and Family of
Stetson; from the year 1634 to the year 1847. By John Stetson Barry.
"Virtus nobilitat omnia."_ Boston: Printed for the author by William
A. Hall & Co. 1847.

  The name of Stetson is spelt differently in old records; as
  Stitson, Sturtson, Studson, Stedson, Stutson, and Stetson. The
  last is the usual method of spelling the name, though some
  families spell it Stutson. The first of the name and the ancestor
  of all in this country was Robert Stetson, commonly called
  _Cornet_ Robert, because he was Cornet of the first horse company
  raised in Plymouth colony, Ms., in the year 1658 or '9. He
  settled in Scituate, Ms., in the year 1634, but it is not known
  satisfactorily whence he originated, though tradition says he
  came from the county of Kent, England.

  Among his descendants are many who have held offices of trust and
  responsibility, and who have stood high in public esteem.

  The pamphlet contains 116 pages, and gives a pretty full account
  of the Stetson family. We hope it will be an additional incentive
  to others to prepare memorials of their ancestors.


_An Oration delivered before the New England Society in the city
of New York, December 22, 1846. By Charles W. Upham._ New York:
Published by John S. Taylor, Brick Church Chapel, 151 Nassau Street.
1847.

  This is an excellent address, written in a clear, graceful, and
  forcible manner. After describing the influences, both in the Old
  World and in the New, which were at work, and the combination
  of which resulted in the advent of our fathers to these desert
  shores, the orator remarks upon the Puritans, and the chief
  elements of their character and the result of their labors. The
  blessings of a free government and religious liberty are largely
  descanted upon, and the address closes as follows: "If the sons
  of New England rear the school-house and the church wherever
  they select their homes; if they preserve the reliance upon
  their own individual energies, the love of knowledge, the trust
  in Providence, the spirit of patriotic faith and hope, which
  made its most barren regions blossom and become fruitful around
  their fathers, then will the glorious vision of those fathers be
  realized, and the Continent rejoice, in all its latitudes and
  from sea to sea, in the blessings of freedom and education, of
  peace and prosperity, of virtue and religion."


_A Sermon preached at Northwood, N. H., March 12, 1847, on the death
of Dea. Simon Batchelder. By Elliot C. Cogswell, Pastor of the
Congregational Church. Published by request._ Concord: Printed by
Morrill, Silsby, & Co. 1847.

  The text on which this discourse is founded is contained in Acts
  viii: 2. "And devout men carried Stephen to his burial, and made
  great lamentation over him." It is divided into six heads. When
  the good man dies the people of God lose, 1. His society. 2. His
  sympathy. 3. His counsels. 4. His prayers. 5. His coöperation. 6.
  His admonitions. The subject is well treated, and the language
  affectionate and appropriate. Dea. Batchelder was born, March
  5, 1758. He was the son of Davis Batchelder of Northampton, who
  moved to Northwood about 1770; who married, 1. Mary Taylor of
  Hampton, by whom he had four children; 2. Ruth Palmer; and 3. a
  Widow Marston; by whom, (the last two wives,) he had fourteen
  children, four of whom survive. Dea. Batchelder at the age of
  eighteen enlisted in the war of the Revolution, in 1776, and
  served in Capt. Adams's company and Col. Poor's regiment at
  Winter Hill in Charlestown, Newport, R. I., and Ticonderoga, N.
  Y. April 4, 1778, he married Rachel Johnson, daughter of Benjamin
  Johnson, with whom he lived about fifty-two years, she dying Jan.
  5, 1830, aged 73. By her he had seven children, five of whom
  still survive. He died March 10, 1847, aged 89 years and 5 days.


_A Discourse delivered before the Rhode Island Historical Society,
on the evening of Wednesday, January 13, 1847. By Hon. Job Durfee,
Chief-Justice of Rhode Island. Published at the request of the
Society._ Providence: Charles Burnett, Jr. 1847.

  The subject of this discourse is "Rhode Island's Idea of
  Government." Judge Durfee speaks of the "origin of this idea--of
  the various forms which it took in its progress towards its
  realization in that state, in minds of much diversity of
  character and creed; and of that 'lively experiment,' which it
  subsequently held forth, that 'a most flourishing civil state may
  stand, and be best maintained, with a full liberty in religious
  concernments'--a liberty which implied an emancipation of reason
  from the thraldom of arbitrary authority, and the full freedom of
  inquiry in all matters of speculative faith."

  Though to the founders of Rhode Island, and particularly to Roger
  Williams, belong the fame and glory of having realized this idea
  in the form of a civil government, they were by no means the
  first to maintain it. Long before the Reformation it originated
  among the Waldenses in the valleys of Piedmont, and by means of
  the crusade against them by Innocent III., it was spread far and
  wide. The Reformation and the coming of the Puritans to America
  tended to confirm it, but never was it fully realized till Roger
  Williams and his followers came to "the forest-shaded banks of
  the Mooshausic," and established a government on the principle
  that "the State has no right to interfere between conscience and
  God."

  After dwelling largely on the early history and influence of
  Rhode Island, the author passes to the time of the Revolution. We
  find that this little state, though royally armed in her Charter,
  stood among the foremost in the great struggle for independence.
  She was the first to direct her officers to disregard the Stamp
  Act, and to assure them indemnity for so doing; the first
  to recommend the permanent establishment of a Continental
  Congress; the first to adopt the Articles of Confederation; the
  first to brave royalty in arms; the first to enact and declare
  independence; the first to establish a naval armament of her own;
  and the first to recommend to Congress the establishment of a
  Continental Navy. The oration closes with an eloquent appeal to
  preserve the history and early records of the State. Appended is
  a Poem by Sarah Helen Whitman, recited before the Rhode Island
  Historical Society, previous to the delivery of the address.


_A Sketch of the History of Newbury, Newburyport, and West Newbury,
from 1635 to 1845. By Joshua Coffin, A. B. S. H. S._

      "_For out of the old fieldes, as men saithe,
      Cometh the new come from yere to yere,
      And out of old bookes in good faithe
      Cometh this new science that men lere._"

                                  _Chaucer._

      "_Lives there a man with soul so dead,
      Who never to himself hath said,
      This is my own my native land?_"

                                  _Scott._

Boston: Published by Samuel G. Drake, No. 56 Cornhill. Printed by
George Coolidge. 1845.

  This is an exceedingly valuable and highly interesting work, and
  appears to have been written with great labor, and _con amore_.
  The author seems, as he says, "to have made a broad distinction
  between fact and tradition, and to have related nothing as fact,
  which he did not believe to be true." The representation of the
  character of the inhabitants of Newbury and their transactions,
  we think is accurately given, and seems to have been given "_sine
  ira, sine studio_." Copious extracts are made from the town
  records, and many from the church records, which latter exhibit
  more fully the peculiar traits of our ancestors.

  The town of Newbury was originally one of the largest towns in
  the county, being about thirteen miles long, and about six miles
  broad in the widest place, and containing about thirty thousand
  acres, of which nearly two thousand were covered with water. In
  1764 it was divided into two towns, Newbury and Newburyport, and
  in 1819 West Newbury was set off and incorporated as a separate
  town.

  This volume is embellished with portraits of Dr. John Clarke,
  the physician in Newbury from 1637 to 1651, who died in Boston
  in 1664, aged 66, Chief-Justice Sewall, Rev. Mr. Whitefield, and
  Rev. Dr. Parish, and also with a map of the town and engravings
  of the old-town meeting-house which stood one hundred and six
  years, from 1700 to 1806, and of a house which "was infested
  with demons" in 1679, and where, "before the devil was chained
  up, the _invisible_ hand did begin to put forth an astonishing
  _visibility_!" The Appendix, containing among other things a List
  of Grantees, and Genealogies of the First Settlers from 1635
  to 1700, is a very important part of the work. The conclusion,
  comprising about fifty pages, is also valuable.


_Brookline Jubilee. A Discourse delivered in Brookline, at the
request of its Inhabitants, on 15 March, 1847, the day, which
completed half a Century from his Ordination, by John Pierce, D. D.,
fifth minister of the first Congregational Church and Society in said
town._ Boston: James Munroe and Company. MDCCCXLVII.

  The text on which this discourse is founded is in Psalm xxxvii:
  25. "I have been young and now am old."

  It is indeed pleasant in these "moving times," when ministers
  are not settled during even good behavior, but only so long as
  they please the fastidious taste of their people, to behold a
  pastor who has remained with his flock a long series of years,
  who stands among them, a relic of a former generation, to guide
  them by his counsels and guard them with his watchful care. It
  is alike honorable to the pastor and his people to meet in one
  common jubilee, to thank the bounteous Giver of all things for
  his mercies, and strengthen the ties which have so long bound
  them together. In the present case, however, not a church merely,
  but a whole town have united to honor one who may be regarded as
  their father, and whose name is identified with the town.

  The sermon contains, as might be expected from Dr. Pierce, an
  immense amount of historical facts, some of them of a general,
  but most of them of a local character. The town of Brookline was
  incorporated Nov. 13, 1705, O. S., and the first Congregational
  church was gathered Oct. 26, 1717, O. S., of which Dr. Pierce
  is the fifth pastor. Since his settlement nearly all who were
  then around him have departed this life, while he, now enjoying
  a "green old age," stands almost alone. The discourse is very
  valuable for the history it contains, and is written in a
  candid and an affectionate manner. Appended is an exceedingly
  interesting account of the proceedings of the day, which was
  published in the Christian Register, and other papers in Boston.
  We regret that we have not room to insert extracts from it. Dr.
  Pierce will go down to the grave beloved and respected by all
  ministers and people who knew him, whether of his own or other
  denominations.


_A Discourse on the Cambridge Church-Gathering in 1636; delivered in
the First Church, on Sunday, February 22, 1846. By William Newell,
Pastor of the First Church in Cambridge._ Boston: James Munroe and
Company. 1846.

  The text is from Psalm xliv. 1-3. "We have heard with our ears,
  O God, our fathers have told us, what work thou didst in their
  days in the times of old. How thou didst drive out the heathen
  with thy hand, and plantedest them.... For they got not the land
  in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save
  them; but thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy
  countenance, because thou hadst a favor unto them."

  This discourse contains an account of the formation of the church
  in Cambridge, and of some of the events preceding it, and brief
  notices of the principal actors. It contains also many other
  valuable facts. There is an appendix containing nineteen pages of
  great value, embracing among other things a list of the members
  of the church, "taken and registered in the 11 month, 1658,"
  and brief genealogical notices of one hundred and seventeen
  individuals. In giving this sermon to the public, Mr. Newell has
  rendered an important service.




FOOTNOTES:

[1] This Memoir is an abstract, (taken by permission,) of a "Memoir
of John Endecott, First Governor of the Colony of Massachusetts Bay,
by Charles M. Endicott, a descendant, of the seventh generation;"--a
work well prepared, and handsomely printed in folio form, containing
116 pages, and just issued from the press, solely for the private use
of the family. Our Memoir will be introduced with a few preliminary
remarks, and, occasionally, will be interspersed with passages
respecting the early history of the country.

[2] See Morton's New England Memorial. The Planter's Plea notices the
event as rather the effect of accident from the prevailing winds,
than any design on the part of the master.

[3] Letter to the elder Adams, among the MSS. of the Massachusetts
Historical Society.

[4] The Rev. Mr. Felt has recently found among some papers at
the State House, Boston, a bill made out in Gov. Endecott's own
hand-writing, and presented to the General Court, for the cure of a
man committed to his care. He there styles himself "Chirurgeon."

[5] Deposited there by C. M. Endicott, Esq., in 1828.

[6] Perhaps Roger Conant and two or three others, in some respects,
might have been exceptions.

[7] See Covenant, p. 221.

[8] The Rev. Mr. Upham, in his Dedication Sermon, in 1826, thus
speaks of him: "John Endecott, (a man, who to the qualities
which have rendered him illustrious, as an effectual leader of
colonization, as a gallant soldier, as a skillful statesman, added
a knowledge of the Scriptures, and a devout piety, which will ever
hallow his memory,) early in the year 1629, before the formation of
this church, wrote to Gov. Bradford respecting a conference he had
held with a gentleman sent to him from Plymouth, (Dr. Fuller.) on the
subject of church institution and government. In this letter we find
no acknowledgment of any other authority in such a matter than his
own private judgment, and no desire expressed, or attempt exhibited,
to force his judgment upon others." The letter here referred to is
the one already cited, of May 11, 1629. "The standard," says Mr.
Upham, "by which Mr. Endecott made up his judgment in this matter,
was certainly no other than the standard of Protestantism--the
Scriptures, as they were opened to his understanding."

[9] "Kernwood," the summer residence of Francis Peabody, Esq., is
situated on the borders of this stream, and for beauty of location is
not surpassed in that part of the country.

[10] Charles M. Endicott, Esq., distinctly recollects his visiting,
when quite a boy, one of these ruins on the borders of this stream,
situated in the midst of a locust grove, in the vicinity of the
"Endecott Burying-Ground."

[11] Mass. Hist. Coll., I., iv., p. 119.

[12] The General Court, in January, 1635, unanimously agreed, that if
such a Governor should come to this country, the Colonists ought to
resist his authority, and maintain their rights.

[13] The very next year, only two of the Council, Vane and Dudley,
would consent to spread the King's colors even in the fort, on
account of the cross in them.--_Winthrop's Jour._, Vol. I., p. 189.

[14] Neal's History of the Puritans, Vol. II., chap. 5.

[15] Snow's History of Boston.

[16] This "faithful friend" was none other than Mrs. Leverett, the
wife of the Agent.

[17] According to tradition, his tombstone was in a good state of
preservation down to the commencement of the American Revolution,
when it was with many others destroyed by the British soldiers, at
the time they occupied Boston.

[18] The Church, (the first in Massachusetts Colony,) was established
Aug. 6, 1629.

[19] This is not the church of which the Rev. Mr. Hurd is pastor.

[20] Twins.

[21] This account of the antiquities and pedigree of the Parsons
Family was prepared principally from manuscripts in the possession
of Samuel H. Parsons, Esq., of Hartford, Ct., by the Corresponding
Secretary of the New England Historic, Genealogical Society.

[22] For minute and interesting particulars of this now important
town, the reader is referred to the history of it by REV. DANIEL
LANCASTER. In that work the author has given pedigrees of many of the
early settlers.

[23] All the fly-leaves are gone from the beginning of the Old
Testament, as well as the title-page.

[24] This Deborah was the mother of the American Heroine, _Deborah
Sampson_, who, under the name of _Robert Shirtlieff_, served about
two years as soldier in the army of the Revolution, in Capt. Webb's
Company, Col. Jackson's Regiment, and General Patterson's Brigade,
and after an honorable discharge from the Continental army, returned
home to her mother at Plimpton in the Old Colony; assumed her female
habiliments, and was married to Benjamin Gannet of Sharon, Ms., in
1784, where she died about ten years ago, and where three of her
children reside at the present day.

[25] MS. Memorandum of Capt. John Hull, made at the time and
preserved among the Sewall papers. The Boston Records also say Sept.
17.




  TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE

  Italic text is denoted by _underscores_.

  Bold text is denoted by =equal signs=.

  Superscript letters are denoted by ^, for example y^e and Serv^t.
  A number following the ^ indicates the generation of the family, for
  example Joseph,^3 is in the third generation of the (Parsons) family.

  Missing names and dates were usually indicated by a blank space in the
  original text, a few times by ----, and this is retained in the etext.

  Obvious typographical errors and punctuation errors have been
  corrected after careful comparison with other occurrences within
  the text and consultation of external sources.

  Except for those changes noted below, all misspellings in the text,
  and inconsistent or archaic usage, have been retained. For example:
  horrours; thraldom; intrusted.

  Pg 237, 'quotâ' replaced by 'quota'.
  Pg 258, '(31)' replaced by '(34)'.
  Pg 259, the list of children under (37) has been formatted to be
          consistent with the other lists.
  Pg 260, 'Jan. 4, 1748' replaced by 'Jun. 4, 1748'.
  Pg 261, the list of children under (45) has been formatted to be
          consistent with the other lists.
  Pg 262, '335--4 Oliver' replaced by '335--4 Olive'.
  Pg 264, 'Commonweath' replaced by 'Commonwealth'.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The New England Historical &
Genealogical Register, Vol 1, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK NEW ENGLAND HISTORICAL REGISTER ***

***** This file should be named 50758-0.txt or 50758-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/0/7/5/50758/

Produced by Heather Clark, John Campbell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

